SKILLS

Each character has several primary "skills", disarming, magic
devices, saving throws, stealth, searching ability, searching
frequency, fighting skill, and shooting skill, which are
derived from the character's race, class, level, stats, and
current equipment.  These skills have rather obvious effects,
but will be described more completely below. The starting
abilities of a character are based upon race and class.
Abilities may be adjusted by high or low stats, and may
increase with the level of the character.
 
=== Fighting ===

Fighting is the ability to hit and do damage with weapons or
fists.  Normally  a  character  gets  a single blow from any
weapon, but if his dexterity and strength are  high  enough,
he  may  receive  more blows per round with lighter weapons.
Strength and dexterity both modify the  ability  to  hit  an
opponent.  This skill increases  with the level of the char-
acter.
 
=== Shooting Ability ===

Using  ranged  missile  weapons  (and  throwing  objects) is
included  in this skill.  Different stats apply to different
weapons, but this ability may modify the distance an  object
is  thrown/fired, the amount of damage done, and the ability
to hit a creature.  This skill increases with the  level  of
the character.
 
=== Saving Throws ===

A Saving Throw is the ability of a character to  resist  the
effects  of  a spell cast on him by another person/creature.
This does not include spells cast on the player by  his  own
stupidity,  such  as  quaffing a nasty potion.  This ability
increases with the level of the  character,  but  then  most
high  level  creatures  are  better at casting spells, so it
tends to even out.  A high wisdom also increases this  abil-
ity.
 
=== Stealth ===

The ability to move  silently about is very useful.  Charac-
ters with good stealth can usually surprise their opponents,
gaining the first blow.  Also, creatures may fail to  notice
a  stealthy  character  entirely, allowing a player to avoid
certain fights.  This skill is based entirely upon race  and
class, and will never improve unless magically enhanced.
 
=== Disarming ===

Disarming is the  ability  to  remove  traps  (safely),  and
includes  picking  locks  on  traps and doors.  A successful
disarming will gain the character  some experience.  A  trap
must  be  found  before  it  can be disarmed.  Dexterity and
intelligence both modify the ability  to  disarm,  and  this
ability increases with the level of the character.
 
=== Magical Devices ===

Using a magical device such as  a  wand  or  staff  requires
experience  and  knowledge.  Spell  users such as  magi  and
priests are therefore much better at using a magical  device
than say a warrior.  This skill is modified by intelligence,
and increases with the level of the character.
 
=== Searching Frequency (Perception) ===

Perception  is  the  ability  to  notice  something  without
actively  seeking it out.  This skill is based entirely upon
race and class, and  will  never  improve  unless  magically
enhanced.
 
=== Searching Ability (Searching) ===

To search is to actively look for secret doors, floor traps,
and  traps on chests.  Rogues are the best at searching, but
magi,  rangers, and priests are also good at it.  This skill
is  based  entirely  upon  race  and  class,  and will never
improve unless magically enhanced.
 
=== Infra-vision ===

Infra-vision is the ability to see heat sources. Since  most
of  the  dungeon is cool or cold, infra-vision will not allow
the player to see walls and objects.  Infra-vision will allow
a  character  to see any warm-blooded creatures up to a cer-
tain distance.  This ability works equally well with or with
out  a  light source.  The majority of Angband's creatures are
cold-blooded, and will not be detected unless lit  up  by  a
light  source.  Most non human races have innate  infra-vision
ability.  Human can gain infra-vision only if it is magically
enhanced.