
                        ************************************
                        **   EyAngband 0.3.0 readme file  **
                        ************************************

Welcome to EyAngband, the Angband varient authored by Eytan Zweig. This readme
file gives a summary of the main new features that differentiate EyAngband from
normal (vanilla) Angband. For a more complete change list, check eychanges.txt
or the EyAngband website at http://eyangband.sourceforge.net/ . 

1. New character races

EyAngband includes three new races - the Angel and the Demon, both of whom are
different from other races in that their  racial name and bonuses do not remain 
static, but rather grow with the levels. They both start out very weak, and 
grow into real power machines. Also, the Nilbog is a powerful warrior race with
great stats that advances fairly rapidly in levels but whose magical items lose
their plusses.

2. Changes to character classes.

EyAngband modifies several of the character classes - mages and rangers both 
get considerably different spell selections, paladin's magical abilities have
been rebalanced, and the rogue class has been totally removed. In addition, 
EyAngband offers three new character class - the first is the Mystic, which 
can use both mage and priest spellbooks, gains spells much faster, and has 
more mana available to it than any other class - but it is also the worse 
fighter of all. The second new class is the Bard, who does not use spell books
at all but rather musical instruments, and combines decent fighting skills with 
spells that allow him to influence the monsters around him or affect his own 
abilities. The third new class is the Spellsword, a "pure" mage/warrior combo.

3. Changes to gameplay

EyAngband offers many changes to normal Angband gameplay. Highlights include 
the replacement of the "maximize" option with a "half-maximize" mode, where 
race stat bouses are permanent but class bonuses only affect chracter birth, 
monsters that can now be poisoned or blinded, a "diseased" condition for 
players, more resistances, a seperation of throwing and bow skills, player
invisiblity, inclusion of auto-squelching and the monster-list terminal
patches, a bookshop for scrolls and spellbooks, and many interface changes.

4. Quests

EyAngband includes a new building - the adventurer's guild - where the player
can recieve random quests which can be completed for rewards. 

5. New items and monsters

EyAngband includes nearly 120 more monsters and many more items, including over
30 new artifacts, than normal Angband. It includes new types of items, such as
throwing powders, magical lanterns, and artifact spellbooks, which provide rare 
and very powerful spells.

6. Alchemy

EyAngband allows players to mix potions to create new potions - a risk is 
involved, as the potions may explode, but with some luck the player can create 
powerful rare potions from cheap common ones.

7. More customability

EyAngband offers customizable character classes through the new c_info.txt 
file, and customizable fixed quests through the q_info.txt file.

--------------


The EyAngband windows executable has been compressed with UPX. More details on 
UPX can be found at http://wildsau.idv.uni-linz.ac.at/mfx/upx.html#abstract

