****************************************************************************
Our story so far...
  It is the time of the Conjunction of a Million Spheres. Your Earth is
composed almost entirely of cave-riddled mountains (which have their own
dark inhabitants, known mostly by rumour), with villages in the few fertile
valleys that exist. Except for high summer, movement and trade between the
villages is almost impossible.
  Fresh rumour begins infiltrating the villages.  Rumours about the strange,
otherworldly beings that have begun to concentrate in the vast system of
caves under the mountains.  Rumours that the forces of Chaos are gathering
in unheard of numbers (led by three Chaos Lords referred to only as "The
Sword Rulers"), somewhere deep within the Earth, preparing for a great
battle with Law, upsetting the rule of the Cosmic Balance on your plane.
  Something needs to be done.  The Balance must be restored.  Someone must
journey to the bowels of the Earth and attempt to banish these Sword Rulers
from your plane...
****************************************************************************

=============================================
= Gumband 2.1.7b = Last Update: 29-Jul-2001 =
============================================================================
Changes from Gumband 2.1.7a are marked with '##'. Only the most major
changes are listed here, to keep things short...
============================================================================
Send any and all complaints (or praise ;) to aa343@chebucto.ns.ca. Patches,
makefiles, etc., should be sent to gumby_jd@yahoo.com (due to a lack of
INBOX space at the first address).
============================================================================
PLEASE NOTE: Preserving savefile compatability is *NOT* important to me. I
highly suggest you finish up your current character in your current version
before moving to this one. At the very least, monster memory could be
severely messed up between versions...
============================================================================
Thanks to all the folks in #angband and rec.games.roguelike.angband who've
put up with me, and even helped me in many cases, while I was plundering
their knowledge of C for this little project. :) So, if you've responded to
any of my posts dealing with Gumband, or C programming in general, consider
yourself thanked. :) [individual thanks will be down there in the entries
that apply]
============================================================================
Thanks also to those who've been compiling Gumband for other platforms. You
know who you are, and since it sometimes changes, I won't lay the blame in
here. ;) Just make sure to give yourself credit for the compile in the text
file you upload with your archive, 'kay?
============================================================================
There have been other minor changes than those listed here that are no
longer worth individual mentions. Most changes to the monster, object and
artifact lists won't be included here, and some items might drop off the
list from time to time (to save space), tho that won't mean that the change
has been reversed.
============================================================================
Note to Windows users: Remember to change Gumband.ini to reflect the path to
\lib on your own system....
============================================================================
Note to Linux users: There may be problems with the ` macro I have defined
in .\lib\user\pref.prf (everyone should read that file, BTW), so you might
want to remove it.
============================================================================
Note to everyone: *PLEASE* read the notes at the top of .\lib\user\pref.prf
as they contain information you should know about the included <realm>.prf
files and other notes pertaining to macros.
============================================================================

                    ####### Known Bugs #######

 There are too many potions in the game at the moment, so a few potions
 cannot be generated via debug mode's item creation menus since the list
 runs out of symbols fairly quickly. It is not a priority to fix.

 If you look through the entire monster list ['/' then CTRL-a] while the
 'know all monster info' cheat is active, you will see the occasional blank
 monster (ie, The ('')/(''): [(r)ecall, ESC]). This is because there are
 still empty slots in r_info.txt, which I will eventually fill.

 Sometimes, completely at random, the Roguelike option will set itself to
 true upon startup. I have no idea why... [hasn't happened in quite a while
 as of 14-May-01]

 Unfortunately, it seems that sometimes the game will freeze when you enter
 a level. I have no idea why, as usual. :( All I can suggest, until I figure
 this out, is that if this happens right after a save, that you move your
 character around a bit before taking the stairs or WoR'ing into the level
 that just froze you - that usually changes the RNG enough so that the
 freeze won't happen a second time. This seems to happen deeper in the
 dungeon when you've got a lot of monsters - maybe something to do with the
 random quests... Save often, and if this happens don't consider yourself a
 cheater for restoring from a backup.
 [A test today [01-May-01] found a freeze after a 'Refusing a lesser vault'
  message during level generation. I'll continue investigating.]

 I've been noticing that sometimes there won't be as many quest-monsters on
 a level as there are supposed to be, meaning that a quest can't be finished
 that trip. :( I think KILL_BODY got rid of them? There's no check for
 QUESTOR (or UNIQUE) status for KILL_BODY's effect in the original code, so
 it might very well be the problem... I've added a check, so it might be
 fixed - if this bug crops up in this version, someone please mail me, 'kay?

 Sometimes aggravate_monsters (via scrolls, Rogue thefts, etc., but not the
 permanent attribute) doesn't wake up sleeping monsters. Noticed it
 happening on two creatures so far: the Mangy looking leper and the Battle-
 scarred veteran. Some games it'll wake them up, some games it won't. :(

 Random artifact amulets and rings that are of a type that starts with the
 EASY_KNOW flag will be automatically identified if you've previously ident-
 ified the base type of ring or amulet. Not really worth fixing, IMHO.

## FIXED: I hope. Area effect spells should no longer bounce off of monsters
 with Reflection. [added a specific 'bolt' argument to project()' instead of
 relying on the radius of the spell]

## FIXED: The 4th Black Market shopkeeper, "Gumby the Godly" ;), is back to
 having a 30000au purse - I'd forgotten that they used plain ints (instead
 of long ints) to store that value, causing overflow and negative prices
 when selling to them.

## FIXED: Astral characters can no longer teleport_level from level 97 to
 level 98 (Arioch's level). As far as I can tell, there is now no way to
 avoid having to go to the town to win the game. :)

## FIXED: The intrinsic pval of Sledgehammers no longer pushes the pval of
 ego-items beyond the maximum for that ego-type. [eg, no Sledgehammers of
 Extra Attacks (2d5) (+X,+X) (+4 attacks), since EA's maximum pval is 3]


                    ####### Misc Changes #######

 Updated main-gcu.c to the version from the Thangorodrim Linux section. If
 that causes you any problems, the original main-gcu.c is still there as
 'main-gcu.old'. The other files you will need are in ./src/gcu_fix.zip
 (sorry - couldn't get tar to work today for some reason :(. If you need to
 know anything else, go to http://thangorodrim.angband.org/linux/faq.html

 Implemented a quick start option. If you select it, your character will
 start the game with mildly enchanted equipment in their inventory. The
 enchantments include a minor Slay or Brand for weapons with a few plusses,
 and one of the basic elemental resistances for armour. The Ranger's Short
 Bow only gets plusses. Using this option will cut your final score in half
 and character dumps will be marked.

 Chaos Resistance no longer gives Confusion Resistance.

## Being Berserk now gives +25 to hit and +(plev/2) to damage (was +10). In
 return, you are reduced to just the base AC of worn armour and your
 Dexterity bonus, minus a further 10 points. Spellcasting failure rates go
 up by 25% as well.

 I have implemented Kamband-style Ghosts, but as a birth choice instead of a
 race. The player starts out in the dungeon on level 96, on a random stair,
 with 75 Scrolls of Identify. The player cannot use Word of Recall effects
 until he or she reaches the town, at which point the character loses the
 abilities granted by this ghostly status (See Invisible, Telepathy, Slow
 Digestion, permanent Lite, Speed +10, wizard-lighting levels upon entry,
 and being able to pass through walls without damage).
 [Thanks to Ivan Tkatchev for the idea of ghostly characters, and to
  DarkGod, Antimatter, Timo Pietil and Parak for their help and advice]

 Turned the Spoiler Generation debug command into a standard command,
 accessed via the '$' key in both command sets. Note that the *.spo files
 will be generated in ./lib/info.

 The Perception skill is now *only* set by the player's race/class and the
 Extra Eyes mutation (which no longer gives +15 Searching) - items that give
 bonuses to Searching only affect the Searching skill itself.

 Spontaneous searching is less likely now, requiring a rand_int(100) <
 skill_fos (the Perception skill), instead of kicking in automatically with
 a Perception of 50 or higher.

## Reflection for monsters and players is no longer determined by the 'rad'
 field (the 3rd field) of 'project()', but on the 'bolt' field, which is now
 the last field in project()'s argument list.

## Added the maximum dungeon level to the main (first) character display.

## Altered the gcu_fix archive (now in the main Gumband directory as
 gcu_fix.tar.gz) for Linux a bit. Now includes a Debian keymap, an updated
 index file, and the Linux FAQ from thangorodrim.

## If the player has the 'Chaos Gift' mutation and doesn't have a second
 magical realm (ie, isn't a Mage or Priest), your patron will be displayed
 as it does for Chaos Warriors.

## The effects of Nexus (*not* the damage) can be resisted if a
 "randint(150) < skill_sav" check is made (as opposed to the standard saves
 of "randint(100) < skill_sav").


              ####### Altered Races and Classes #######

(see ./lib/help/birth.txt and the source for full details on races and
 classes)

Beastmen:
 Instead of gaining and losing mutations purely at random as they move
 around (or rest), as in earlier versions, Beastmen now have a 1-in-3 chance
 of losing a mutation, *if* they currently have any mutations, instead of
 gaining one. This happens on every level-up instead of only happening if
 randint(5)==1.
 No longer has +1 effect when hit by a Polymorph Self effect.

Chaos Warriors:
 If you have Arioch, Xiombarg or Mabelrode as a patron, and you kill them,
   then you will be hit with multiple TY Curses.
 Now use WIS for their spell stat instead of INT (they now get their magic
   through their patron (god), like Priests and Paladins do).
 Swapped their +1 INT bonus with their +0 WIS bonus, to make the above a bit
   fairer.
 No longer has +1 effect when hit by a Polymorph Self effect.

Draconians:
 Now gain the following resistances at the level in brackets: Fire (5),
   Cold (10), Acid (15), Electricity (20), Light (25), Dark (30),
   Poison (35).
 Breath weapon type is randomly chosen from a list that is added to as
   levels are gained. All Draconians have Fire breath. The breath types that
   follow are added at the levels in brackets: Cold (10), Acid (15),
   Electricity (20), Light (25), Dark (30), Poison (35), Shards (40),
   Chaos (45), Mana (50). [breath type was previously determined by class]

Dwarves:
 Racial activation modified to add Magic Mapping at level 35.

Gambolts:
 Exceptional DEX & CHR (both sustained), Saving Throw and Stealth. Decent
   Searching and great Perception. All other stats and skills are average.
 Permanent speed +2.
 Hit Dice of 8, 60' infravision, and an XP penalty of +30%
 Racial activation is Charm Monster at level 20, which becomes Charm
   Monsters at level 50.
 Cannot 'legally' choose to be Priests, Paladins, Chaos Warriors or Monks.

Golems:
 They now resist Fire (because of their 'birth' in a kiln, forge, or for
   being stone) and Shards, in addition to their original Poison resistance.
 They no longer get intrinsic See Invisible, Free Action or their level 35
   Hold Life, but keep their Slow Digestion.
 Intrinsic Armour Class has been changed to equal the Golem's level.

Half-Giants:
 Racial activation ('Stone to Mud') has been altered to only work when the
   player is adjacent to a non-permanent wall (or a closed door).

Half-Trolls:
 All Half-Trolls, not just Warriors, get Slow Digestion with their level 15
   Regeneration.

High Elves:
## Required XP is now back up to +100% (was +75% for a while).

Melniboneans:
 Good Int and Wis, but low Chr. Other stats are slightly above average.
   Skills are generally good. Tend to be treated like Elves in stores,
   except by Humans and Barbarians...
 Their Chaos Patron is *always* Arioch, and are fairly likely to get the
   CHAOS_GIFT mutation.
 10 hit dice, +25% XP requirement, 20' infravision.
 Racial activation is demon summoning. There is a 1-in-3 chance that the
   demon will be hostile...

Priests:
 The penalty for using edged weapons is now a *real* penalty of (-15,-15)
   instead of the (-2,-2) that no one ever really noticed. See also the
   Spellcasting section below.

Rangers:
 Bonus shots with Short and Long Bows at levels 15, 30 and 45, instead of
   just at levels 20 and 40.
 Nature magic only, no secondary realm.

Rogues:
 Rogues gain 1 XP for successfully searching out a secret door or trap with-
   out using a spell. Others gain nothing.
 Other classes only get 1/2 of the normal XP gained for disarming traps on
   chests or on the floor.
 Rogues no longer get XP for picking locks on doors. [and, as in previous
   versions, no one else does either]
 Rogues can now lock doors when they close them.
 Backstabbing a monster requires that the Rogue be wielding a weapon that
   is 5 pounds or lighter, the Rogue pass a randint(monster_level+10) <=
   stealth check, and that the monster be somewhat humanoid and is stunned,
   confused, sleeping or who are afraid. [backstab damage has been much
   increased from the ZAngband version]
 Rogues gain an extra blow per round at level 25, but only when wielding a
   weapon that is 5 pounds or lighter. [an incentive to keep using the small
   weapons later on]
 Rogues can now steal gold from monsters, as in OAngband. Just alter the
   grid the monster is on... [CTRL-dir or a '+' and the direction] It's a
   bit tougher to steal than in O, however, and there's a chance that you
   will flee laughing (teleport a short distance) after a successful theft.

Spectres:
 No longer gains telepathy at level 35.

Vadhagh:
 Great Int and Wis, exceptional Dex and Chr. Str is a bit below average and
   Con is rather bad. Skills are generally very good. Generally treated like
   Elves in the stores...
 9 hit dice, +55% XP required, 40' infravision.
 Resists Chaos.
 As a racial activation, they can step into an adjacent plane of the Earth,
   otherwise known as Alter Reality.

Vampires:
 Takes damage from wielding *any* light source (either in the Light slot or
   as a weapon or armour) without having Resist Light.

Warriors:
 Warriors gain an AC bonus equal to 50% of worn armour's base AC, rounded
   down.

Warrior-Magi:
 Bonus melee attacks at levels 25 and 50, bonus missile shot at level 35.
 6 blows per round with same weight and multiplier restrictions as Warriors.
 Arcane magic only, no secondary realm.
 Available mana is at 75% what everyone else gets.

Weaponmasters:
 Weaponmasters are roughly equal to Warriors in stats and skills.
 Weaponmasters have chosen for them, at birth, one of the four melee weapon
   types (Hafted (blunt), Polearms, Axes, or Swords) and start out with a
   weapon of the proper type.
 Weaponmasters gain a bonus to-hit and to-dam equal to the player's level
   only when using a weapon of the type they specialize in.
 [thanks to GSN for the suggestion on how to keep this from affecting bows &
  throwing - I probably never would've spotted something so simple on my
  own :]
 Weaponmasters gain extra blows when wielding a weapon in their specialty
   class (at levels 15, 30 and 45), and have the same weight and multiplier
   restrictions as Warriors, but never have more than one blow, regardless
   of Str/Dex and any magical considerations, when wielding other weapons.
 Gains Fear Resistance at level 30.
 No spellcasting.
 XP penalty of 30%.

Yeeks:
 Now have -5 to all stats, horrible skills, decent hit dice (can't let them
   be *all* bad :), etc., etc., taken from DrAngband.
 Racial activation sets the 'Afraid' flag and gives them a speed boost -
   Yeeks run away a lot. :)
 Required XP is at -75%, making level gains *extremely* fast.


              ####### Monster-Related Changes #######

 Bumped Sauron to level 97 and replaced Oberon and the Serpent of Chaos with
 the three Sword Rulers (Arioch, Xiombarg and Mabelrode), all three of which
 must be now be defeated to win.

 Monsters with HURT_FIRE or HURT_COLD take +50% damage from those sources.

 Monsters with RES_CHAO take extra damage from weapons of Chaos (see CHAOTIC
 weapons below), but damage from Chaos breath, bolts and balls are reduced
 like any other resistance.

 EXPLOSIVE flag added (monster blows up when killed - a formalization of the
 Unmaker's death effect). EXPLOSIVE monsters can only be killed by the
 player to prevent nasty things from happening when an explosion from one
 kills another EXPLOSIVE monster...

 New monster blow effect: RBE_VAMP (drains XP and heals the monster). See
 melee1.c for full details.

 New monster blow effect: RBE_HALLU (causes hallucinations, preventable with
 Resist Chaos or a saving throw).

 Undead monsters are no longer totally immune to Nether attacks. Instead,
 they resist at 1/9th normal damage (compared to 1/3rd for those who resist
 Nether and 1/2 for Evil creatures).

 Defined humanoid monsters as a monster with one of the following symbols:
 "AhkNoOpPtTyYVW". Used for Slay Humanoid and the backstab attack of Rogues.

 The Hand of Doom also TY-Curses you if you don't save, and is also a bit
 harder to resist.

 The monster health bar has been updated to show if a monster is stunned
 (light brown) or confused (dark brown).

 Uniques no longer get automatic resistance to sleep, confusion, slowing,
 etc., and the saving throw for all creatures against such attacks is a bit
 weaker. [Uniques still can't be charmed, however]

 New option: stupid_groups. If stupid_monsters is off, group monsters will
 still use the old AI.

 When a pet of yours kills a monster, you will get one half of the XP that
 you would have gotten for killing the monster yourself.

 Having pets no longer reduces your mana regeneration rate.

 DEMONs now resist Hell Fire attacks (damage /= 3), just like GOOD creatures
 resist Holy Fire.

 RBE_CONFUSE and RBE_BLIND melee attacks can now be resisted by making a
 saving throw, like you can for RBE_FEAR. However, the save is at
 "rand_int(150) < skill_sav" instead of "rand_int(100) < skill_sav", which
 is the standard save.


               ####### Object-Related Changes #######

 Altered the Dexterity table governing the chance of having something stolen
 from your backpack. There is no more immunity: the table tops out at 98% at
 DEX:18/220 or higher.

 Chaotic weapons deal x2 damage to creatures who breathe chaos and those who
 resist chaos (RES_CHAO) [briefly, weapons of Chaos, in the earlier Moorcock
 stories, were created from Chaos by Law specifically to fight Chaos] and
 have a reduced chance of causing earthquakes or causing your foe to vanish.

 Wielding a weapon with a Slay that conflicts with your race has a 50%
 chance of burning you each turn. Wearing heavy gloves (gauntlets or better,
 regardless of artifact or ego status) will prevent the burning. What you
 are considered to be is based on the nearest r_info.txt equivalent. Since
 Slay Humanoid was created only for Erekose's sword, Kanajana, which emitted
 a poisonous radiation deadly to humanoids, those with Poison resistance
 won't be scorched by it.
 [see dungeon.c for details]

 Added a SLAY_HUMANOID flag. x3 base damage to humanoid creatures. Used
 *only* on the Long Sword 'Kanajana' and will never appear on random
 artifacts.

 Brands and Slays are now cumulative See cmd1.c for full details.

 Turned the code that adds random sustains, abilities and high resistances
 into the RAND_SUST, RAND_ABILITY and RAND_RESIST object flags. Note that
 these are *only* meant for ego-items, so if you modify the *_info files, I
 make no guarantees about what will happen if you try and add these to an
 artifact or normal object - it might crash or it might just ignore the
 flags...

 Artifacts now have a 75% chance to resist disenchantment (was 71%) and
 ego-items now have a 25% chance to resist disenchantment (they originally
 had no resistance).

 Artifacts now have an 80% chance to avoid being "blasted" by a curse_weapon
 or curse_armor effect.

 Potions of Self Knowledge identify the contents of your pack, and are also
 a bit cheaper and more common.

 Rings and amulets can become random artifacts. [stolen from Pern]

 (Blessed) weapons now have a 1-in-4 chance of having Slay Evil.

 Random artifacts can again be generated as cursed - tho heavy and permanent
 curses are less likely...

 Scrolls of Artifact Creation can now affect amulets, rings, ammo and
 diggers. [note that using it on ammo is more than likely to give many
 useless things like resistances and stat bonuses. :) Rings and amulets, due
 to their tvals being higher than those of armours, are treated like armour
 when it comes to enchantment]

 Added scrolls of Set Recall. When read, it will prompt you for a number
 between 1 and 97. That will be your new word of recall depth. You can skip
 random quests in this manner...

## Added Rods of Pesticide (dispels animals for 5 damage).

## Added Amulets of Resist Electricity, to complete the set.

## Added Rods of Stinking Cloud (same as the wand, with a 15-turn recharge).

## Armours of Elvenkind no longer grant a random high resistance, but their
 pval can go up to +4 now and also grants a Searching bonus, as Elven Cloaks
 do. [this is in addition to their normal +Stealth and 4 basic resists, of
 course]

## The TY_CURSE object flag has been replaced with the DEVICES flag, which
 gives you a Magical Devices skill of 95. Various objects have been changed
 because of this, of course.

## Added Rings of Knowledge, which provides the DEVICES skill.

## Weapons of Morgul no longer have the TY_CURSE, of course, so now they
 have an even chance for either Drain Experience or Hold Life.  Their
 penalties to-hit and to-dam aren't nearly as bad now, either.


                   ####### Spellcasting #######

 The biggest change of all to a spell effect: Invulnerability does *NOT*
 prevent all damage, nor does it have a chance of being penetrated. Instead,
 Invulnerability reduces *all* damage to 1/9th of normal (cumulative with
 resistances and such, if I'm reading things right). Hate me yet? :)

 Failure rates for spellcasting are adjusted as follows:
   Wearing gloves (without Free Action or a Dexterity bonus) for mage-type
      spellcasters (+15%) [was +25%]
 Being encumbered by heavy armour [penalty to fail equal to half of the
      amount of mana you again lose for heavy armour; was +15% fail]
   Priests wielding a non-blessed edged weapon (+15%) [was +25%]
   Being Berserk (+25%)
   Being stunned (+15%/+25%)
   
 Characters suffering any of the conditions above can no longer get a 0%
 spell failure rate, no matter how high their spell-stat or level is.
 [penalties are assessed after bonuses]

 The various branding spells have been drastically reduced in level and
 casting cost, with the exception of Vampiric Branding. Branding can now be
 applied to existing ego-items, tho supplementary abilities (such as the
 Hold Life of Vampiric weapons) won't be added. Any item, except for bolts
 branded by Cubragol, branded by the player becomes unsellable. (so that
 Holy Avenger you Frost & Fire Branded can't be sold when you find something
 better :) You cannot add more than one brand to a weapon. [mostly to keep
 Death and Arcane spellcasters, as well as those lucky with finding the
 scrolls, from getting obscene weapons :] Player-branded items will
 automatically have {!k} inscribed on it (or added to an existing
 inscription) to prevent accidental destruction when the auto_destroy
 option is turned on.
 The 'default:' brand, which chooses between Frost and Fire brands, now
 also chooses between Acid and Lightning brands - both a logic thing and to
 give Nature users a potentially useful brand. :)

 Altered the armour weight limits for spellcasting. See ./help/birth.txt for
 the actual numbers.

 No telekinesis/fetch effect requires line of sight anymore.

Chaos:
 'Mana Burst' now has a straight 5% chance of producing a true ball of mana
   (GF_MANA), destroying any non-artifact objects in its radius, instead of
   the normal missile ball (GF_MISSILE), which doesn't destroy objects on
   the ground. The mana ball does an extra 25 points of damage compared to
   the missile ball.
 'Wonder' now deals a *lot* more damage than standard spells, to make up for
   the randomness which normally makes it a useless spell.
 'Fist of Force' is now a GF_FORCE effect instead of a GF_DISINTEGRATE
   effect, and has been slightly reduced in damage (to the same level as
   'Fire Bolt').
 Removed 'Teleport Other' and replaced it with 'Demonic Consultation'. There
   is a 50% + (plev-5) chance for your consultation to identify an item,
   with a 50% chance that it will be an *Identify* effect. Otherwise, you
   will summon an angry demon (if, for some reason, no demon shows up,
   you'll get a message saying so and a bit of 'wild magic').
 Replaced 'Demon Detection' with 'Chaotic Sensing', a detection spell which
   scans the current panel and has only a 50% + (plev/2) (max 75%) chance to
   display traps, doors, stairs, monsters, objects and treasures. [secret
   doors, invisible traps, and buried treasure that isn't adjacent to a
   corridor/room have to pass a separate 50% + (plev/2) check, making these
   less likely to be detected]

Death:
 'Wraithform' now lasts (randint(plev) + (plev/2)), making it useful.
   Wraithform, whatever the source, no longer grants reflection, and only
   reduces damage to 1/3rd instead of 1/10th.
 'Omnicide' has been replaced by 'Summon Death', a line-of-sight death
   'ray'. There is a price for such power, however - if not invulnerable,
   the caster will suffer 200+d200 damage from Death's cold touch...

Life:
 'Protection from Evil' now affects creatures of any level <= level 97,
   regardless of the character's level. Duration of the effect has been
   reduced. It is also less likely to successfully repel a monster (maximum
   40% chance to repel at character level 50). These mods apply regardless
   of the source of the PfE. (see melee1.c for full details)

Mindcraft:
 'Precognition' now detects doors and stairs at level 5, with detect traps
   bumped to level 10, and full detection moves to level 35.
 'Minor Displacement' has moved its dimension door (targeted, short-ranged
   teleportation) effect to level 30. (down from 35 in previous versions)
 'Major Displacement' now gives Teleport Other at level 45 instead of its
   original 'Banish' (teleport away all creatures in line of sight) effect.
 'Psychometry' now gives Identify at level 30 and *Identify* at level 40.
 'Mind Wave' now becomes a line-of-sight effect at level 30.
 'Domination' now Charms Monsters at level 35. (up from 30).
 Added 'Telekinesis' (tho with slightly more generous weight limits than the
   Trump/Sorcery spells). Level 20, cost 12 to use.

Sorcery:
 Removed 'Sense Minds' and restored 'Telekinesis'.
 Like the potion of the same name, the 'Self Knowledge' spell now also
   identifies the contents of your backpack.

Trump:
 'Trump Spying' (timed ESP) has been replaced with 'Minor Trump', which
   summons a creature that has a maximum level equal to 1/2 of the player's.
   There is a 1-in-10 chance that the summoned creature will be hostile.
 Removed 'Joker Card' and restored 'Trump Reach'.


                  ####### Other People's Work #######

(NOTE: I might have missed one or two, but no biggie. :] Mail me if you spot
your own work so I can credit you properly...  And some, of course, is
covered up in the main text)

 Kieron Dunbar's Stormbringer patch, to put Stormy in the a_info & k_info
 text files instead of creating it on the fly.

 Kieron's self-cursing items patch - items with the "AUTO_CURSE" flag will
 curse themselves when worn, and the turn after being uncursed (at normal
 speed) while worn, when uncursed (giving you one chance to remove the
 item). The type of curse [heavy or normal] depends on what other Cursed
 flags the item has.

 Added Prfnoff's '[Last Messages]' routine to the character dump so we can
 all see what you died of. :)

 Stole the lose_mutation() function from ZAngband 2.5.3, which makes things
 a lot more logical when dealing with the gains and losses of Beastmen...

 Added Eric Bock's Pet Command Menu [accessed via the 'p' key under both
 keysets].  You can now control if pets can pick up objects or open doors,
 or forbid those things, tell your pets to follow you closely or to wander
 at a distance and, of course, dismiss your pets.

 Added A.P. White's 'push-back' effect for GF_FORCE from DrAngband. Many
 thanks to APW and DarkGod for their help in trying to get it working right.
 [if the monster so hit doesn't seem to get knocked back, it's because they
  have taken their move, and the first thing they'll do most times is move
  right towards you]

 Added the Slime Mold names patch by Fufie of #angband. This can be disabled
 via the name_slimes option.
 [Note that every transfer of a Slime Mold from the store to you will rename
 that Mold - and Molds sold to stores will merge inscriptions...]

 Added the Rogue theft code from OAngband by Leon Marrick. Required some
 minor alterations, of course, to get it to work. Also included his mods to
 wake up & aggravate the entire level for too many thefts. One major change
 to the code: there's a chance that the character will blink away, like any
 other thief...

 Added artifact descriptions from PernAngband...

 Took the Yeek race from DrAngband v2.9.8 by A.P. White.