============================================================================
= Gumband 2.1.1d: Changes from ZAngband 2.1.1c = Last Update: 24-Nov-2000  =
============================================================================

============================================================================
I've compiled this source successfully under MS-DOS, using DJGPP. Don't know
how well it'll compile under other platforms, tho I figure it should do just
as well as ZAngband 2.1.1c does. I won't be compiling for platforms other
than MS-DOS, but the whole purpose of source code is that you don't have to
worry about me doing the compiling. :)
============================================================================
On that subject, I've compiled the DOS version without graphics or sound,
using main-ibm.c. If you want the graphics, recompile using main-dos.c, I
suppose...
============================================================================
Send any and all suggestions or complaints to gumby@gwar.net - but remember
that my C skills are minimal, so the changes to the source will be as well.
============================================================================
Thanks to all the folks in #angband and rec.games.roguelike.angband who've
put up with me, and even helped me in many cases, while I was plundering
their knowledge of C for this little project. :) So, if you've responded to
any of my posts dealing with Gumband, or C programming in general, consider
yourself thanked. :)
============================================================================
There have been other minor changes than those listed here that aren't worth
individual mentions.
============================================================================
Please note that the numbering is just for convenience and not any sort of
chronology of the changes I've made since the list has been rewritten and
reordered several times now. :)
============================================================================

01) Rings and Amulets can now be pseudo-ID'd, tho only as good, average and
 cursed. [dungeon.c]

02) Got rid of the autoroller delay during character creation. [birth.c]
 Yes, it keeps players a bit more honest with their stats to keep the
 autoroller relatively slow, but that does nothing useful except fill the
 high-scores table with tons of low-level characters and force players to
 hang around the 'stat-gain' levels until they're bored to tears. And once
 past stat-gain, does it really matter what your starting statistics were?

03) Many activated artifacts, wands, staves, rods, etc., now deal 50% more
 damage. [cmd6.c, object1.c] IMHO, they're usually so weak that there's no
 incentive to use the offensive abilities of these objects, except for the
 occasional blast with a ball-spell item against *WEAK* breeders or group
 monsters.

04) Removed spellbooks from the Temple and Magic Shoppe - they were too much
 competition for the Bookstore. :) [store.c, init2.c]

05) Removed the aggravation and NO_TELE flags from Stormbringer. It, along
 with regular Blades of Chaos, is now Chaotic (see #16), and Stormy *always*
 has DRAIN_EXP. [xtra2.c, k_info.txt] (note that my first alteration was to
 make it deal 8d8 damage and have a permanent curse, as well as getting rid
 of DRAIN_EXP, AGGRAVATE and NO_TELE, but after numerous complaints... :]
 Look for another change in Stormbringer the day I come up with an ADoMish
 auto-cursing routine. :)

06) Potions of New Life are cheaper and more common. [k_info.txt] Instead of
 re-rating your hit points and then removing all mutations, it first removes
 all of your mutations and then polymorphs you, for the same effect as the
 Polymorph Self spell. [cmd6.c] Now you might end up again with the mutation
 you were desperate to get rid of in the first place, or turn into a Yeek or
 an Abomination. :)

07) Stores now have a 1 in 15 chance of shuffling each day (originally a 1
 in 21 chance). The {on sale} discount has been reduced to 35% since sales
 are that much more common. [defines.h, store.c] The purses of the General
 Store and Black Market owners have been altered slightly. [tables.c]

08) Scrolls of *Remove Curse* are no longer available in the Temple, but
 scrolls of Phase Door and potions of Restore Wisdom are. [init2.c] Scrolls
 of *Remove Curse* are now a bit more common in the dungeon. [k_info.txt]

09) Rings of Slaying now get the same range of bonuses as rings of Damage
 and Accuracy do. [object2.c] Price has been increased 50% and it's a bit
 rarer because of this.

10) Spellbook rarities and depths have been standardized, with Arcane books
 going at depths 10, 20, 30 and 40. [k_info.txt]

11) The chance of 'inflating' an object's level during its creation has been
 changed to a 1/15 (6.6%) chance, up from the normal 1/20 (5%). [defines.h]

12) Changed the default starting options {=} to what *I* prefer to use - it
 is only a convenience for me so that if I lose a savefile I don't have to
 waste time resetting all the options again. :) [tables.c]

13) Dungeon generation has been altered slightly: Small levels are now more
 common (50% chance instead of 33%). Destroyed levels are less common (3.3%
 chance instead of 5.5%). Empty 'Arena' levels are now less likely to be
 darkened (10% chance instead of 20%). [generate.c]

14) Equipped items are, hopefully, treated just like inventory for the
 purpose of being destroyed by attacks. [spells1.c] Haven't actually seen
 this happen yet, but I got the tip for the change from RR himself, so... :)

15) Changed 'info_size' in 'struct header' to u32b from u16b - might break
 things. If so, my apologies. :) [types.h] Did this so that I, hopefully,
 can add monsters of my own without having to remove the ones native to
 ZAngband 2.1.1c... And no, the new monsters will never be listed here. You
 will have to actually play to meet them, or else read r.g.r.angband to see
 me bragging about them. :)

16) I seem to have got it working right: (Chaotic) weapons now deal extra
 damage (x2 base) against creatures that resist and/or breathe chaos.
 [normally, the extra damage would go against the creatures that *don't*
 resist. Go read Moorcock's Elric series to see the logic in this. (briefly,
 weapons of Chaos, such as Stormbringer and Mournblade, were created by Law
 to fight Chaos, but it was a case of having to fight fire with fire, so to
 speak)] Most creatures who either have 'chaos' as part of their name or
 else breathe it, along with a few others, now explicitly resist chaos via
 the new RES_CHAO flag. [these changes were to too many files for me to now
 list :]

17) Added GWAR. [r_info.txt] Go to http://www.gwar.net/ for details on this
 great band. :) They're just big and tough (hopefully!) at the moment, but
 someday I plan to give them the ability to summon each other and to summon
 their Slaves. Their manager, Sleazy P. Martini, will also be created - he
 will, of course, be able to summon GWAR. Other GWAR creatures and enemies,
 such as Gor-Gor, the members of the Morality Squad, and Techno-Destructo,
 once I can think of good stats for them. :)

              -*-*-*- Altered Races and Classes -*-*-*-

[birth.c  - magic, starting equipment
 xtra1.c  - melee and missile attacks, intrinsics display(?)
 tables.c - magic costs and race/class definitions
 files.c  - intrinsics definitions(?)]

 Tweaked the pseudo-ID of most classes. The various spellcasting Warriors
 have all been speeded up a bit (to the 60000 mark), with Warrior-Magi
 gaining heavy sensing. Magi have been changed to the (plev * plev + 40)
 formula. High Magi now use the same formula as Mindcrafters - still rather
 slow, but they needed it to be playable, IMHO. The rest have had their
 pseudo-ID's speeded only slightly. [dungeon.c]

Chaos Warriors:
 Bonus melee attack at level 25.
 Bonus missile shot at level 35.
 +1 to hit and to damage every 10 levels.

Golems:
 XP required now at +150% (up from +100%).
 They now have 13 hit dice (up from 12 HD).
 Magic Devices skill now at +5 (up from -5). [being magical devices
   themselves, Golems have an instinctive understanding of these things]
 They no longer get intrinsic See Invisible, Free Action or their level 35
   Hold Life.

Mindcrafters:
 XP required is now +30%, up from +25%.
 Various changes to their powers, noted in the Altered Spells section.

Monks:
 The 'Monk Hack' has been enabled, allowing the intrinsic speed of Monks to
   be cumulative with that of Klackons and Sprites. [config.h] With the
   amount of speed in ZAngband, I fail to see how this would be unbalancing.

Paladins:
 Bonus melee attack at level 25.
 Bonus missile shot at level 35.
 +1 to hit and to damage every 10 levels.

Rangers:
 Bonus melee attack at level 25.
 Bonus shots with Short and Long Bows at levels 15, 30 and 45, instead of
   just at levels 20 and 40.
 +1 to hit and to damage every 10 levels.
 Nature magic only, no secondary realm.
 Begins with Short Bow instead of second spellbook.

Warrior-Magi:
 Bonus melee attacks at levels 25 and 50.
 6 blows with same weight and multiplier restrictions as Warriors.
 Bonus missile shot at level 35.
 +1 to hit and to damage every 5 levels.
 Arcane magic only, no secondary realm.
 Begins with Hard Leather Armour instead of second spellbook.


                   -*-*-*- Altered Spells -*-*-*-

[cmd5.c    - spell definitions
 object2.c - spell display information
 tables.c  - spell costs and names]

 Arcane magic is now limited to Warrior-Magi and High Magi, which is good
 because...

 Arcane magic has been fairly heavily re-written. The new spell list is:

  Book 1                   Book 3
  ------                   ------
  Zap                      Teleport
  Detect Invisibility      Stone to Mud
  Detect Monsters          Ray of Light
  Blink                    Satisfy Hunger
  Light Area               Magic Mapping
  Trap/Door Destruction    Recharging
  Stinking Cloud           Remove Curse
  Cure Light Wounds        Cure Critical Wounds

  Book 2                   Book 4
  ------                   ------
  Detect Doors/Traps       Elemental Protection (resist Fire/Cold/Elec/Acid)
  Phlogiston               Prismatic Bolt (fires a random element...)
  Confuse Monster          Identify
  Sleep Monster            Teleport Away
  Detect Objects/Treasure  Elemental Ball
  Cure Poison              Detection
  See Invisible            Word of Recall
  Cure Medium Wounds       Clairvoyance

 Spell damages have been adjusted upwards a bit, up to 50% or so more
 effective. Cure Light, Medium and Critical Wounds have had their die rolls
 increased by 50% as well. Spellcasters are supposed to attack with magic,
 but the normal damage rolls were rather pathetic, causing spellcasters to
 melee as much, if not more, as they cast damage spells...

 The Mindcrafter power 'Precognition' now detects doors and stairs at
 character level 5, with detect traps moved to character level 10.

 The Identify portion of 'Psychometry' has been moved up to level 30,
 inserting an *Identify* effect at level 45. No justification for this other
 than that I wanted to. :)

 Again with the Mindcrafters, the Dimension Door portion of 'Minor
 Displacement' has been moved to level 30.

 Replaced the Trump Spell 'Reset Recall' with the spell 'Minor Divination,'
 which detects traps, doors, stairs and normal monsters. Reset Recall is
 almost completely useless since you couldn't Reset to a depth that you had
 never visited. The cost and fail rate for Minor Divination are the same as
 they were for Reset Recall, so there's no cheap and easy early detection
 for Trump users. :)

 Chaos' 'Mana Burst' now has a 1-in-10 chance of being a ball of *real* mana
 (GF_MANA instead of the normal GF_MISSILE). It is compensation for the
 increased damage it deals. (25 + (plev + (plev / 2))) = 100 damage at level
 50.
