****************************************************************************
Our story so far...
  It is the time of the Conjunction of a Million Spheres. Your Earth is
composed almost entirely of cave-riddled mountains (which have their own
dark inhabitants, known mostly by rumour), with villages in the few fertile
valleys that exist. Except for high summer, movement and trade between the
villages is almost impossible.
  Fresh rumour begins infiltrating the villages.  Rumours about the strange,
otherworldly beings that have begun to concentrate in the vast system of
caves under the mountains.  Rumours that the forces of Chaos are gathering
in unheard of numbers (led by three Chaos Lords referred to only as "The
Sword Rulers"), somewhere deep within the Earth, preparing for a great
battle with Law, upsetting the rule of the Cosmic Balance on your plane.
  Something needs to be done.  The Balance must be restored.  Someone must
journey to the bowels of the Earth and attempt to banish these Sword Rulers
from your plane...
****************************************************************************

=============================================
= Gumband 2.1.9b = Last Update: 08-Jan-2002 =
============================================================================
Changes from Gumband 2.1.9a are marked with '##'. Only the most major
changes are listed here, to keep things short...
============================================================================
Send any and all complaints (or praise ;) to aa343@chebucto.ns.ca. Patches,
makefiles, etc., should be sent to gumby_jd@yahoo.com (due to a lack of
INBOX space at the first address).
============================================================================
PLEASE NOTE: Preserving savefile compatability is *NOT* important to me. I
highly suggest you finish up your current character in your current version
before moving to this one. At the very least, monster memory could be
severely messed up between versions...
============================================================================
Thanks to all the folks in #angband and rec.games.roguelike.angband who've
put up with me, and even helped me in many cases, while I was plundering
their knowledge of C for this little project. :) So, if you've responded to
any of my posts dealing with Gumband, or C programming in general, consider
yourself thanked. :) [individual thanks will be down there in the entries
that apply]
============================================================================
Thanks also to those who've been compiling Gumband for other platforms. You
know who you are, and since it sometimes changes, I won't lay the blame in
here. ;) Just make sure to give yourself credit for the compile in the text
file you upload with your archive, 'kay?
============================================================================
There have been other minor changes than those listed here that are no
longer worth individual mentions. Most changes to the monster, object and
artifact lists won't be included here, and some items might drop off the
list from time to time (to save space), tho that won't mean that the change
has been reversed.
============================================================================
Note to Windows users: Remember to change Gumband.ini to reflect the path to
\lib on your own system....
============================================================================
Note to Linux users: There may be problems with the ` macro I have defined
in .\lib\user\pref.prf (everyone should read that file, BTW), so you might
want to remove it.
============================================================================

                    ####### Known Bugs #######

 There are too many potions in the game at the moment, so a few potions
 cannot be generated via debug mode's item creation menus since the list
 runs out of symbols fairly quickly. It is not a priority to fix.

 If you look through the entire monster list ['/' then CTRL-a] while the
 'know all monster info' cheat is active, you will see the occasional blank
 monster (ie, The ('')/(''): [(r)ecall, ESC]). This is because there are
 still empty slots in r_info.txt, which I will eventually fill.

 Sometimes, completely at random, the Roguelike option will set itself to
 true upon startup. I have no idea why... [hasn't happened in quite a while
 as of 06-Dec-01]

 Unfortunately, it seems that sometimes the game will freeze when you enter
 a level. I have no idea why, as usual. :( All I can suggest, until I figure
 this out, is that if this happens right after a save, that you move your
 character around a bit before taking the stairs or WoR'ing into the level
 that just froze you - that usually changes the RNG enough so that the
 freeze won't happen a second time. This seems to happen deeper in the
 dungeon when you've got a lot of monsters - maybe something to do with the
 random quests... Save often, and if this happens don't consider yourself a
 cheater for restoring from a backup.
 [A test today [01-May-01] found a freeze after a 'Refusing a lesser vault'
  message during level generation. I'll continue investigating.]
 [Should've said this ages ago, but the above behavior is for the main-ibm
  version. The main-win version gets a general protection fault when this
  bug kicks in. Still have no idea what to do to fix it as of 15-Aug-01.]
 [10-Nov-01: Just set SAFE_MAX_ATTEMPTS (for object allocation when a level
  is generated) to 1000, down from 5000 - similar bug in EyAngband and
  vanilla, apparently, so maybe this'll fix it]

 I've been noticing that sometimes there won't be as many quest-monsters on
 a level as there are supposed to be, meaning that a quest can't be finished
 that trip. :( I think KILL_BODY got rid of them? There's no check for
 QUESTOR (or UNIQUE) status for KILL_BODY's effect in the original code, so
 it might very well be the problem... I've added a check, so it might be
 fixed - if this bug crops up in this version, someone please mail me, 'kay?

 Sometimes aggravate_monsters (via scrolls, Rogue thefts, etc., but not the
 permanent attribute) doesn't wake up sleeping monsters. Noticed it
 happening on two creatures so far: the Mangy looking leper and the Battle-
 scarred veteran. Some games it'll wake them up, some games it won't. :(

 Random artifact amulets and rings that are of a type that starts with the
 EASY_KNOW flag will be automatically identified if you've previously ident-
 ified the base type of ring or amulet. Not really worth fixing, IMHO.

 If an object has a random ability (resistance, power, or sustain), it will
 sometimes reroll the ability and sometimes lose the ability. So don't Brand
 a Defender if you need that confusion resistance it's giving you! :) I
 can't think of any solution to preserve the xtra info...

 Sometimes, when hit by GF_FORCE (wand of Striking, Fist of Force spell), a
 monster standing by a permanent wall on the outer edge of the map will
 disappear. This is *very* bad in the case of quest monsters... Also, if the
 monster is hit while standing directly in front of 1 grid of granite, or a
 door, or whatever, it will be pushed through to the other side. (see,
 starting at lines 2536 and 4000, spells1.c for details - I'm stumped as to
 how to fix it: any solutions gratefully accepted)

## Finally got around to marking all the compiler warnings (that I get with
 gcc v3.02) in the source. Just search for '/* warning:'. Anyone who can fix
 them, mail me.

## FIXED: Items that have their full information shown in character dumps
 generated at death will no longer show "It has hidden powers." if the item
 wasn't *Identified* in life.


                    ####### Misc Changes #######

 Updated main-gcu.c to the version from the Thangorodrim Linux section. If
 that causes you any problems, the original main-gcu.c is still there as
 'main-gcu.old'. The other files you will need are in ./src/gcu_fix.zip
 (sorry - couldn't get tar to work today for some reason :(. If you need to
 know anything else, go to http://thangorodrim.angband.org/linux/faq.html

 Implemented a quick start option. If you select it, your character will
 start the game with mildly enchanted equipment (usually an ego-item or two)
 in their inventory, at least 1000 gold in their purse, a recall depth of
 250', and enough XP to start the game as a level 5 character. The only
 penalties for using this option is that your score will be halved and the
 fact that you quick-started will be noted in any character dumps you make.

 Chaos Resistance no longer gives Confusion Resistance.

 Being Berserk now gives +25 to hit and +(plev/2) to damage (was +10). In
 return, you are reduced to just the base AC of worn armour and your
 Dexterity bonus. Spellcasting failure rates go up by 25% as well.

 I have implemented Kamband-style Ghosts, but as a birth choice instead of a
 race. The player starts out in the dungeon on level 96, on a random stair,
 with 75 Scrolls of Identify. The player cannot use Word of Recall effects
 until he or she reaches the town, at which point the character loses the
 abilities granted by this ghostly status (See Invisible, Telepathy, Slow
 Digestion, permanent Lite, Speed +10, wizard-lighting levels upon entry,
 and being able to pass through walls without damage).
## Ghostly/astral characters can no longer use Scrolls of Set Recall, even
 when they reach the town - they are going to have to walk all the way down.
 [Thanks to Ivan Tkatchev for the idea of ghostly characters, and to
  DarkGod, Antimatter, Timo Pietil and Parak for their help and advice]

 Turned the Spoiler Generation debug command into a standard command,
 accessed via the '$' key in both command sets. Note that the *.spo files
 will be generated in ./lib/info.

 The Perception skill is now *only* set by the player's race/class and the
 Extra Eyes mutation (which doubles your Perception) - items that give
 bonuses to Searching only affect the Searching skill itself.

 Spontaneous searching is less likely now, requiring a rand_int(100) <
 skill_fos (the Perception skill), instead of kicking in automatically with
 a Perception of 50 or higher.

 New Option: show_damage. If true, the damage from melee and missile attacks
 will be shown after the "You hit the foo" message. Defaults to false/off.
 Note that no damage is displayed if you can't actually see the target (ie,
 if you're blind, if there's no light, or if you fire offscreen).

 Racial polymorph during a do_poly_self() effect is now rarer, and the
 gender of your character is randomized during a racial polymorph as well.

 Added a poly_all() function - (attempts to) polymorph all monsters in line
 of sight. One small snag: the game considers monsters that are polymorphed
 to be new monsters, therefore it takes a while to finish the effect as it
 polymorphs monsters several times. Still fun, tho. :) I will, of course, be
 attempting to fix this little problem someday.

 The Home now has *4* pages (48 stacks of items) to store stuff in.

 On the 3rd page of the character 'sheet' display, sustained stats are shown
 in light blue (this is both the normal 's' and for any number that might be
 in that column as well).

 Invulnerability now only acts as an extra level of resistance; reduces
 damage from any source by 1/3rd, on top of any other resistances. [was
 1/9th damage in previous versions] Wraithform no longer reduces damage at
 all and only increases AC by 50. [was 1/3rd damage and +75 AC]

 Non-unique monsters are now less likely to resist Death Ray effects,
 requiring a (mon_level + d20 > randint(damage)) to resist. [used to also
 require a randint(100) != 66 to resist, meaning they resisted most of the
 time]

 Having Resist Chaos now prevents all the side effects of being hit by
 Chaos. If you don't have it, then Resist Confusion still stops the
 confusion portion and Resist Nether still stops the experience point loss.

## Restored the auto_haggle 10% 'sales tax' - it's a bit unfair, but I
 finally noticed that it also keeps you from buying and selling at 100% of
 the price.


              ####### Altered Races and Classes #######

(see ./lib/help/birth.txt and the source for full details on races and
 classes)

Archers:
 Bonus shots with any missile weapon at levels 15, 30 and 45.
 Gets more frequent (double the chance) and more powerful critical hits
   (double the roll for the level of crit) with missile weapons.
 Gets a bonus to-hit with missile and thrown weapons equal to char. level.
 Gets +1 to-dam with missile and thrown weapons every 5 levels.
 Gets +1 added to their sling/bow/crossbow's multiplier at level 50. [not
   displayed onscreen, tho]
 Has 5 blows as their natural maxmimum and with no bonus blows due to level.
 Average Str, Con & Chr, great Dex, bad Int & Wis.
 Skills mostly at Warrior levels, except for Fighting (which is as bad as
   a Priest's) and Bows/Throw (which is a fair bit better than a Ranger's).
 Cannot cast spells.
 Gains Resist Fear at level 35.
 Pseudo-ID is as good as a Warrior's.
 Requires +30% XP per level.

Beastmen:
 Each time a Beastman gains a level, a there is a 1-in-4 chance of losing an
   existing mutation. If they fail that check, or have no mutations to lose,
   they instead gain one.

Chaos Warriors:
 If you have Arioch, Xiombarg or Mabelrode as a patron, and you kill them,
   then you will be hit with multiple TY Curses.
 Now use WIS for their spell stat instead of INT (they now get their magic
   through their patron (god), like Priests and Paladins do).
 Swapped their +1 INT bonus with their +0 WIS bonus, to make the above a bit
   fairer.
 Bonus shot now at level 30.

Draconians:
 Now gain the following resistances at the level in brackets: Fire (5),
   Cold (10), Acid (15), Electricity (20), Light (25), Dark (30),
   Poison (35).
 Breath weapon type is randomly chosen from a list that is added to as
   levels are gained. All Draconians have Fire breath. The breath types that
   follow are added at the levels in brackets: Cold (10), Acid (15),
   Electricity (20), Light (25), Dark (30), Poison (35), Shards (40),
   Chaos (45), Mana (50). [breath type was previously determined by class]

Gambolts:
 Exceptional DEX & CHR (both sustained), Saving Throw and Stealth. Decent
   Searching and great Perception. All other stats and skills are average.
 Permanent speed +2.
 Hit Dice of 8, 60' infravision, and an XP penalty of +30%
 Racial activation is Charm Monster at level 20, which becomes Charm
   Monsters at level 50.
 Cannot 'legally' choose to be Priests, Paladins, Chaos Warriors or Monks.

Golems:
 They now resist Fire (because of their 'birth' in a kiln, forge, or for
   being stone) and Shards, in addition to their original Poison resistance.
 They no longer get intrinsic See Invisible, Free Action or their level 35
   Hold Life, but keep their Slow Digestion.
 Intrinsic Armour Class has been changed to equal the Golem's level.

High-Magi:
 Pseudo-ID now equal in speed to that of a Rogue's, but light.

Melniboneans:
 Good Int and Wis, but low Chr. Other stats are slightly above average.
   Skills are generally good. Tend to be treated like Elves in stores,
   except by Humans and Barbarians...
 Their Chaos Patron is *always* Arioch, and are fairly likely to get the
   CHAOS_GIFT mutation.
 10 hit dice, +40% XP requirement, 20' infravision.
 Racial activation is demon summoning. There is a 1-in-3 chance that the
   demon will be hostile...

Monks:
 Hit Dice bonus is now 5.
 Disarming skill is now 35+13.

Paladins:
 Bonus shot now at level 30.
 Gains XP for destroying non-storebought spellbooks: If their magic realm is
   Life, they get XP for destroying Death books. If their magic realm is
   Death, they get XP for destroying Life books.

Priests:
 The penalty for using edged weapons is now a *real* penalty of (-15,-15)
   instead of the (-2,-2) that no one ever really noticed. See also the
   Spellcasting section below.

Rangers:
 Bonus shots with Short and Long Bows reduced back to 2 (levels 20 & 40).
 Nature magic only, no secondary realm.

Rogues:
 Rogues gain 1 XP for successfully searching out a secret door or trap with-
   out using a spell. Others gain nothing.
 Other classes only get 1/2 of the normal XP gained for disarming traps on
   chests or on the floor.
 Rogues no longer get XP for picking locks on doors.
 Rogues can now lock doors when they close them.
 Backstabbing a monster requires that the Rogue be wielding a weapon that
   is 5 pounds or lighter, the Rogue pass a randint(monster_level+10) <=
   stealth check, and that the monster be somewhat humanoid and is stunned,
   confused, sleeping or afraid.
 Rogues gain an extra blow per round at level 25, but only when wielding a
   weapon that is 5 pounds or lighter.
 Rogues can now steal gold from monsters, as in OAngband. Just alter the
   grid the monster is on... [CTRL-dir or a '+' and the direction] It's a
   bit tougher to steal than in O, however, and there's a chance that you
   will flee laughing (teleport a short distance) after a successful theft.

Spectres:
 No longer gains telepathy at level 35.

Vadhagh:
 Great Int and Wis, exceptional Dex and Chr. Str is a bit below average and
   Con is rather bad. Skills are generally very good. Generally treated like
   Elves in the stores...
 9 hit dice, +40% XP required, 40' infravision.
 Resists Chaos.
 As a racial activation, they can step into an adjacent plane of the Earth,
   otherwise known as Alter Reality.

Vampires:
 Takes damage from wielding *any* light source (either in the Light slot or
   as a weapon or armour) without having Resist Light.

Warriors:
 Warriors gain an AC bonus equal to 50% of worn armour's base AC, rounded
   down.
 Gains XP for destroying any non-storebought spellbook.

Warrior-Magi:
 Bonus melee attacks at levels 20 and 40, bonus missile shot at level 30.
 6 blows per round with same weight and multiplier restrictions as Warriors.
 Arcane magic only, no secondary realm.
 Available mana is at 75% what everyone else gets.
 Hit Dice bonus is now 6 (up from 4), equal to Chaos Warriors, Rangers and
   Paladins.

Weaponmasters:
 Weaponmasters are roughly equal to Warriors in stats and skills.
 Weaponmasters have chosen for them, at birth, one of the four melee weapon
   types (Hafted (blunt), Polearms, Axes, or Swords) and start out with a
   weapon of the proper type.
 Weaponmasters gain a bonus to-hit and to-dam equal to the player's level
   only when using a weapon of the type they specialize in.
 [thanks to GSN for the suggestion on how to keep this from affecting the
  Bows/Throw skill]
 Weaponmasters gain extra blows when wielding a weapon in their specialty
   class (at levels 15, 30 and 45), and have the same weight and multiplier
   restrictions as Warriors, but never have more than one blow, regardless
   of Str/Dex and any magical considerations, when wielding other weapons.
 Gains Fear Resistance at level 30.
 No spellcasting.
 XP penalty of 30%.

Yeeks:
 Now have -5 to all stats, horrible skills, decent hit dice (can't let them
   be *all* bad :), etc., etc., taken from DrAngband.
 Racial activation sets the 'Afraid' flag and gives them a speed boost -
   Yeeks run away a lot. :)
 Required XP is at -75%, making level gains *extremely* fast.


              ####### Monster-Related Changes #######

 Bumped Sauron to level 97 and replaced Oberon and the Serpent of Chaos with
 the three Sword Rulers (Arioch, Xiombarg and Mabelrode), all three of which
 must be now be defeated to win.

 Added new monster flag: CHAOTIC. Only effect, at the moment, is that
 CHAOTIC creatures take extra damage from Weapons of Chaos (see the entry
 for Chaotic weapons below).

 Undead monsters are no longer totally immune to Nether attacks. Instead,
 they resist at 1/9th normal damage (compared to 1/3rd for those who resist
 Nether and 1/2 for Evil creatures).

 Defined humanoid monsters as a monster with one of the following symbols:
 "AhkLNoOpPstTyYVWz". Used for Slay Humanoid and the backstab attack of
 Rogues.

 The Hand of Doom also TY-Curses you if you don't save, and is also a bit
 harder to resist.

 The monster health bar has been updated to show if a monster is stunned
 (light brown) or confused (dark brown).

 Uniques no longer get automatic resistance to sleep, confusion, slowing,
 etc., and the saving throw for all creatures against such attacks is a bit
 weaker. [Uniques still can't be charmed, however]

 New option: stupid_groups. If stupid_monsters is off, group monsters will
 still use the old AI.

 When a pet of yours kills a monster, you will get one half of the XP that
 you would have gotten for killing the monster yourself, and having pets no
 longer reduces your mana regeneration rate.

 RBE_CONFUSE and RBE_BLIND melee attacks can now be resisted by making a
 saving throw, like you can for RBE_FEAR. However, the save is at
 "rand_int(200) < skill_sav" instead of "rand_int(100) < skill_sav", which
 is the standard save.

 The effects of Nexus (*not* the damage) can be resisted if a
 "randint(200) < skill_sav" check is made.

 Monsters can now breathe Water (unresistable, so capped at 200 damage).

 Added 'detect_monsters_mental(): monster detection which skips EMPTY_MIND
 creatures, with a plev*2 chance of detecting those with WEIRD_MINDs or
 that are STUPID.

 Monsters who breathe Force are no longer knocked back by GF_FORCE attacks
 by the player.

 RBE_VAMP attacks now only heal the monster by 1/2 the XP+damage they deal
 to the player.

## To fix a bug that causes crashes, you can no longer polymorph monsters
 that are in walls. [apparently the game didn't like it when a creature in a
 wall was polymorphed to something without PASS_WALL (or, I think,
 KILL_WALL)]


               ####### Object-Related Changes #######

 Altered the Dexterity table governing the chance of having something stolen
 from your backpack. There is no more immunity: the table tops out at 98% at
 DEX:18/220 or higher.

 Chaotic weapons deal x3 damage to CHAOTIC creatures (usually those who
 breathe chaos or launch chaos balls, or who have thematically been warped
 by or totally controlled by Chaos). [briefly, weapons of Chaos, in the
 earlier Moorcock stories, were created from Chaos by Law specifically to
 fight Chaos]. Chaotic weapons have a reduced chance of causing earthquakes
 or causing your foe to vanish.

 Added a SLAY_HUMANOID flag. x3 base damage to humanoid creatures. Used
 *only* on the Long Sword 'Kanajana' and will never appear on random
 artifacts.

 Wielding a weapon with a Slay that conflicts with your race has a 50%
 chance of burning you each turn. Wearing heavy gloves (gauntlets or better,
 regardless of artifact or ego status) will prevent the burning. Since Slay
 Humanoid was created only for Erekose's sword, Kanajana, which emitted a
 poisonous radiation deadly to humanoids, those with Poison resistance won't
 be scorched by it. [see dungeon.c for details]

 Brands and Slays are now cumulative See cmd1.c for full details.

 Branding can now be applied to existing ego-items, though supplementary
 abilities (such as the Hold Life of Vampiric weapons) won't be added. Any
 item, except for bolts branded by Cubragol, branded by the player becomes
 unsellable. You cannot add more than one brand to a weapon. Player-branded
 items will automatically have {!k} inscribed on it (or added to an existing
 inscription) to prevent accidental destruction when the auto_destroy option
 is turned on. The default brand, which chooses between Frost and Fire
 brands, now also chooses between Acid and Lightning brands.

 Turned the code that adds random sustains, abilities and high resistances
 into the RAND_SUST, RAND_ABILITY and RAND_RESIST object flags. Note that
 these are *only* meant for ego-items, so if you modify the *_info files, I
 make no guarantees about what will happen if you try and add these to an
 artifact or normal object - it might crash or it might just ignore the
 flags...

 Potions of Self Knowledge identify the contents of your pack, and are also
 a bit cheaper and more common.

 Rings and amulets can become random artifacts. [stolen from Pern]

 (Blessed) weapons now have a 1-in-4 chance of having Slay Evil and can now
 have a pval of up to 4.

 The TY_CURSE object flag has been replaced with the DEVICES flag, which
 gives you a Magical Devices skill of 95. Various objects have been changed
 because of this, of course.

 The effects of drinking a Potion of Death are resisted by characters with
 Hold Life.

 Weapons of Slaying no longer gain Poison Brand or Vorpal/Earthquakes.
 Instead, they get a bunch of Slay Foos. Some Slays are more likely than
 others. Depending on luck, you could get all the Slays or you could get no
 Slays at all. Weapons of Slaying are a bit rarer now as well.

 Missiles of Slaying can now gain more than just one extra damage die.

## Wands of Apportation can now only fetch() objects that are 20lbs or less,
 and you cannot fetch() objects unless you are on an empty floor square
 [this also applies to the various apportation spells as well]. [was 25lbs]
## fetch() effects can no longer grab items that're in vaults.

 Identify and *Identify* now have filtered lists, showing only those items
 that need to be identified. Thanks to RMG for the suggestion and pointers.
 Further, this behavior is controlled by the "filter_identify" option, which
 defaults to off.

 In addition to their normal Clairvoyance, Detection, Self Knowledge and
 Identify Pack effects, Potions of *Enlightenment* also identify *every*
 object on the level.

 Scrolls of Curse Weapon and Curse Armour have become Shatter Weapon and
 Blast Armour, and tho they still make your weapon/armour useless, they no
 longer curse them.

 Potions of Invulnerability are now called Potions of Resilience.

 Wands of Annihilation are now Death Ray effects with a power level of 60.
 [see the note on death ray power up in Misc.; was a Drain Life effect]

 Polearms are now brown [wood - most of the structure of a pole weapon is a
 wooden shaft] so that they are visibly different from Axes.

 Shields of Deflection and Dragon Shields now use the normal shield symbol
 {')'} instead of the hard armour symbol {'['}. Their colours are unchanged.

## {average} items [weapons & armours] will now stack in the inventory once
 they've been pseudo-ID'd... [thanks to Antimatter for the work this took]

                   ####### Spellcasting #######

 Failure rates for spellcasting are adjusted as follows:
   Wearing gloves (without Free Action or a Dexterity bonus) for mage-type
      spellcasters (+15%)
   Being encumbered by heavy armour [penalty to fail equal to half of the
      amount of mana you again lose for heavy armour]
   Priests wielding a non-blessed edged weapon (+15%)
   Being Berserk (+25%)
   Being stunned (+15%/+25%)
   
 Characters suffering any of the conditions above can no longer get a 0%
 spell failure rate, no matter how high their spell-stat or level is.
 [penalties are assessed after bonuses]

 Altered the armour weight limits for spellcasting. See ./help/birth.txt for
 the actual numbers.

 No apportation/fetch effect requires line of sight anymore.


Chaos:
 'Mana Burst' now has a straight 5% chance of producing a true ball of mana
   (GF_MANA) instead of the normal missile ball (GF_MISSILE). The mana ball
   does an extra 25 points of damage compared to the missile ball.
 'Fist of Force' is now a GF_FORCE effect instead of a GF_DISINTEGRATE
   effect, and has been slightly reduced in damage.
 Replaced 'Teleport Other' with 'Demonic Consultation'. There is a 50% +
   (plev-5) chance for your consultation to identify an item, with a 50%
   chance that it will *Identify* instead. Otherwise, you will summon an
   angry demon.
 Replaced 'Demon Detection' with 'Chaotic Sensing', a detection spell which
   scans the current panel and has only a 50% + (plev/2) (max 75%) chance to
   display traps, doors, stairs, monsters, objects and treasures.
 'Chaotic Sensing' will map the current panel at 1/2 the above chance.
 Removed 'Wonder' and moved 'Polymorph Other' into its slot.
 New spell, 'Mass Polymorph', added to book 3. It comes in between
   'Polymorph Self' and 'Summon Demon'.
 'Call the Void', 'Call Chaos', 'Magic Rocket' and 'Mana Storm' have gone
   through a damage upgrade.
 'Chain Lightning' has been changed into 'Confusion Bolt'. Cost is
   unchanged, but damage increased slightly.

Death:
 'Wraithform' now lasts (randint(plev) + (plev/2)), making it useful.
   Wraithform, whatever the source, no longer grants reflection, and only
   reduces damage to 1/3rd instead of 1/10th.
 'Omnicide' has been replaced by 'Summon Death', a line-of-sight death
   'ray'. There is a price for such power, however the caster will suffer
   1/2 of their current HP in damage, 1/6th if they are Resilient, from
   Death's cold touch... [was 200+d200 damage; won't outright kill you now,
   but it makes you more vulnerable]
 'Death Ray' is now more powerful, with a power level of plev * 2. [see the
   note on death ray power up in Misc.]
 'Evocation' no longer Banishes monsters - it still Dispels and Turns them,
  however.

Life:
 'Protection from Evil' now affects creatures of any level <= level 97,
   regardless of the character's level. Duration of the effect has been
   reduced. It is also less likely to successfully repel a monster (maximum
   40% chance to repel at character level 50). These mods apply regardless
   of the source of the PfE. (see melee1.c for full details)
 'Holy Invulnerability' has been renamed 'Holy Resistance'.
 Since 'Cure Critical Wounds' has cured poison for a while now, 'Cure
   Poison' itself is redundant and has been replaced by 'Turn Undead' (ie,
   attempt to scare all Undead in line of sight).

Mindcraft:
 'Precognition' now detects as follows [level in ()s]: Detect Minds (1),
   Detect Doors/Stairs (5), Detct Traps (10), Detect Monsters & Detect
   Invisible (15), Magic Mapping (20), timed Telepathy (25), Detection (35),
   Clairvoyance (45).
 'Minor Displacement' has moved its dimension door (targeted, short-ranged
   teleportation) effect to level 30. (down from 35 in previous versions)
 'Major Displacement' now gives Teleport Other at level 45 instead of its
   original 'Banish' (teleport away all creatures in line of sight) effect.
 'Psychometry' now gives Identify at level 30 and *Identify* at level 40.
 'Mind Wave' now becomes a line-of-sight effect at level 30.
 'Domination' now Charms Monsters at level 35. (up from 30).
 Added 'Apportation'. Level 20, cost 12 to use.

Nature:
## 'Blizzard', 'Lightning Storm', 'Whirlpool' and 'Nature's Wrath' have had
   their damage potentials increased.
## 'Entangle' has been replaced by 'Venomous Thorns', a stinging spray of
   Poison bolts (like the Shard Blast mutation).

Sorcery:
 Removed 'Sense Minds' and restored 'Telekinesis' as 'Apport Arcane'.
 Like the potion of the same name, the 'Self Knowledge' spell now also
   identifies the contents of your backpack.
 'Globe of Invulnerability' has been renamed 'Globe of Resilience'.

Trump:
 'Trump Spying' (timed ESP) has been replaced with 'Minor Trump', which
   summons a creature that has a maximum level equal to 1/2 of the player's.
   There is a 1-in-10 chance that the summoned creature will be hostile.
 Removed 'Joker Card' and restored 'Trump Reach' as 'Apportation'.
 Replaced 'Minor Divination' (which itself replaced 'Reset Recall') with
   'Detect Minds'.
 Swapped the places of 'Phantasmal Servant' and 'Trump Animal' in the second
   spellbook.
 'Shuffle' has been altered to remove the Hanged Man (TY Curse). That entry
   now summons a friendly lesser monster, as per the spell 'Minor Trump'.
   The Devil and Death have reduced chances to show up, with the excess
   going to the minor trump...
 'Living Trump' is now a 50/50 affair instead of having a 7/8 chance of
   giving the random teleportation mutation.


                  ####### Other People's Work #######

(NOTE: I might have missed one or two, but no biggie. :] Mail me if you spot
your own work so I can credit you properly...  And some, of course, is
covered up in the main text)

 Kieron Dunbar's Stormbringer patch, to put Stormy in the a_info & k_info
 text files instead of creating it on the fly.

 Kieron's self-cursing items patch - items with the "AUTO_CURSE" flag will
 curse themselves when worn, and the turn after being uncursed (at normal
 speed) while worn, when uncursed (giving you one chance to remove the
 item). The type of curse [heavy or normal] depends on what other Cursed
 flags the item has.

 Added Prfnoff's '[Last Messages]' routine to the character dump so we can
 all see what you died of. :)

 Stole the lose_mutation() function from ZAngband 2.5.3, which makes things
 a lot more logical when dealing with the gains and losses of Beastmen...

 Added Eric Bock's Pet Command Menu [accessed via the 'p' key under both
 keysets].  You can now control if pets can pick up objects or open doors,
 or forbid those things, tell your pets to follow you closely or to wander
 at a distance and, of course, dismiss your pets.

 Added A.P. White's 'push-back' effect for GF_FORCE from DrAngband. Many
 thanks to APW and DarkGod for their help in trying to get it working right.
 [if the monster so hit doesn't seem to get knocked back, it's because they
  have taken their move, and the first thing they'll do most times is move
  right towards you]

 Added the Slime Mold names patch by Fufie of #angband. This can be disabled
 via the name_slimes option.
 [Note that every transfer of a Slime Mold from the store to you will rename
 that Mold - and Molds sold to stores will merge inscriptions...]

 Added the Rogue theft code from OAngband by Leon Marrick. Required some
 minor alterations, of course, to get it to work. Also included his mods to
 wake up & aggravate the entire level for too many thefts. One major change
 to the code: there's a chance that the character will blink away, like any
 other thief...

 Took the Yeek race from DrAngband v2.9.8 by A.P. White.

 Riivo Magi ('RMG' in the source) contributed the artifact abilities code
 for the character dump, and the suggestion on how to filter the items shown
 at identify prompts.

 Thanks to arch for suggesting the map_area addition to detect_random().

 Thanks to arch (and, apparently, APW) for fixing the flavours of store-
 bought items. [never saw it for myself, but apparently scrolls and such
 bought from stores wouldn't have their flavours in your inventory...]

 Added some more of Kieron Dunbar's patches: weight.diff (shows object
 weights when 'l'ooking around) for all systems, mainchoice.diff (seems to
 automatically show a list when quaffing, zapping, etc., instead of giving
 a normal prompt with the '* to see' option), windows.diff (enhances
 windows a bit for X11 systems), and monlist.diff (lists monsters that are
 nearby in a separate window).

## Added the stacking of pseudo-ID'd {average} objects from Antimatter's
 code, with a lot of help from him to actually get it to work. :)
