OBJ-GOOD.SPO, version 2.30, for Angband 2.7.9v6 (all systems)
Release Date : September 2, 1996

The authors of this spoiler file are:
Original 2.7.8 spoilers: Stephen S. Lee (lee9@fas.harvard.edu)
2.7.9 Update: Leonard Dickens (leonard@alw.nih.gov)

Note: This spoiler was written for Angband version 2.7.9v6.  This spoiler
may be inaccurate for older versions of Angband.  If you are using a
version older than 2.7.9v1, there are better spoilers available.


(1) THE GENERATION OF GOOD ITEMS, GREAT ITEMS, AND ARTIFACTS
    --------------------------------------------------------

(1.0) Definitions

The "object generation level" (ObGenLev) is generally equal to the current
dungeon level (if the object is generated during the generation of a new
dungeon level) or the average of the current dungeon level and the level of
the monster (if the object is part of the treasure carried by a monster your
character has slain).  Exceptions to this rule include objects in chests and
in vaults; chests have their ObGenLev set at the time of the creation of the
chest, and objects generated in vaults get bonuses to their ObGenLev.  For
more details see OBJ-LONG.SPO and DUNGEON.SPO respectively.  (Another
exception is objects that are guaranteed to be of at least good quality; see
below for details on this.)

A "good" item is a weapon or armor item with a small magical boost to its
primary function.  A good weapon has from +1 to +10 to hit and +1 to +10 to
damage above the base enchantment level for its type (which is almost always
(+0,+0).  Good armor has +1 to +10 to AC above its base enchantment level,
which again is almost always +0.

A "great" item is a weapon or armor item with special properties in
addition to magical enhancements to its base function.  Great items are also
referred to in this document as "excellent", and you may also see them called
"ego items" in various other places.


(1.1) The normal creation sequence

When a weapon or a piece of armor is generated, it may pass a "goodness roll"
to become a good item.  This is a percentage roll with the percent chance of
success being equal to 10+ObGenLev, with a maximum of 75.

If an object passes its goodness roll, it may then attempt a "greatness roll"
to become a great item.  This is a second percentage roll with the percent
chance of success being equal to the goodness chance divided by 2, with a
maximum of 20.

Here is a table showing the probability of an object being good, and the
probability of it being great, at various object generation levels.

ObGenLev    % good        % great
------------------------------------------
     0         10%         0.5
     5         15%         1.05
    10         20%         2.0
    15         25%         3.0
    20         30%         4.5
    25         35%         5.95
    30         40%         8.0
    35         45%         9.0
    40         50%        10.0
    45         65%        11.0
    50         60%        12.0
    55         65%        13.0
    60         70%        14.0
   65+         75%        15.0

If an object passes the greatness roll, and it is not being generated in the
town, and there exists an artifact (of the same type of object) that does not
yet exist, it then has a chance to become an artifact.  To do this, it must
first pass the artifact rarity roll, which succeeds 1 time in the artifact's
rarity rating.  Each artifact also has a "minimum level" for creation; if the
current dungeon level is less than this value, then to become an artifact the
object must pass a second rarity roll with a success rate of 1 in two times
the difference between the current dungeon level and the artifact minimum
level.  If it passes both tests, the object subsequently becomes the chosen
artifact.  (For more information on artifacts, including the rarity ratings
and minimum level for each individual artifact, see ARTIFACT.SPO.)


(1.2) Generation of guaranteed good objects

Sometimes the game generates an object that is guaranteed to be good.  This is
true of the treasure of most uniques and some powerful monsters, and also some
objects created in greater vaults.  Good object creation uses an ObGenLev
equal to the normal ObGenLev for that circumstance, plus 10.  When a good
object is created, the game first attempts to create one of the special
artifacts 10% of the time (see below for more details).  If no special
artifact is created, the game will randomly generate objects until it creates
a good object.  Good objects include only weapons/ammo and armor (excluding
sling ammo, rusty chain mail, filthy rags, and broken daggers/swords), the ten
advanced spellbooks, rings of speed, and amulets of the magi.  The item then
proceeds through the normal item creation sequence, automatically passing the
goodness roll (for weapons/armor) and retaining the boosted ObGenLev.


(1.3) Generation of guaranteed great objects

Additionally, sometimes an object will be created that will automatically be
either a great item or an artifact.  This occurs for the treasure drops of the
uniques Wormtongue, Tiamat, Cantoras, Feagwath, Gothmog, Sauron, and Morgoth;
for the treasure drops of powerful ghosts [needs checking]; for objects
created by a Scroll of Acquirement or *Acquirement*; and for some objects
created in greater vaults.  In this case, the game will follow the same
procedure as for the creation of a guaranteed good object, with two
differences: (1) the object will automatically pass the greatness roll as well
as the goodness roll; (2) the object has an increased chance of becoming an
artifact, making four rarity rolls of which only one must succeed.


(1.4) Generation of the special artifacts

The "special" artifacts comprise the artifact light sources, rings, and
amulets.  When the game attempts to create a special artifact, it runs through
a list of all the special artifacts that do not yet exist; each item in the
list undergoes a rarity check and a minimum depth check similar to that of the
normal weapon and armor artifacts.  If these checks succeed then that artifact
is created; otherwise the game then goes to the next artifact in the list
until the list is exhausted or a special artifact is created.


(2) A LISTING OF EXCELLENT OBJECT TYPES
    -----------------------------------

(2.0) NOTES AND DEFINITIONS

In the listing for great items which follows, keep in mind that all great
items get all the bonuses that good items get.  If a bonus to-hit, to-dam or
to AC is given for a great item, that bonus is in addition to the good item
bonus.

All artifacts, all great items, and certain other items can affect the rating
of a level.  The ratings for all objects that increase a dungeon level's
rating are given below.  How this works is discussed at length in the
DUNGEON.SPO spoiler file.

A "sustain" is one of the following: sustain strength, sustain intelligence,
sustain wisdom, sustain dexterity, sustain constitution, or sustain charisma;
all with equal probability.

A "high resist" (or sometimes, "power") is resistance to one of the following:
blindness, chaos, confusion, disenchantment, nether, nexus, poison, shards, or
sound; all with equal probability.

An "ability" is one of the following: feather falling, free action, hold life,
permanent light (radius 1), regeneration, see invisible, slow digestion, or
telepathy; all with equal probability.

An item that has resist fire/cold/acid/lightning always has ignore
fire/cold/acid/lightning as well.  An item with "ignore X" cannot be affected
by X attacks, but offers no extra protection to the user.

The notation "XdY" indicates a number obtained by rolling an Y-sided die X
times.  (Thus 4d6 indicates a number from 4 to 24.)

The notation MB(M) indicates an integer between 0 and M inclusive that
is dependent on dungeon depth and has a normal distribution that is
centered about M*(Object Generation Level/127), and a standard deviation
of M/4 (subject to the range constraints).

The notation "xdY(1 in Z)" indicates a number obtained by rolling a Y-sided
die x times.  x is equal to the number of times the 1 in Z is chance is made,
until failure.  Thus xd4(1 in 10) translates to: 0 (90% chance), 1d4 (9%
chance), 2d4 (0.9% chance), 3d4 (0.09% chance) ... There is no limit, so
theoretically it is possible to get maxint, but don't count on it :-).


(2.1) GOOD AND GREAT ARMOR
      --------------------

(2.1.0) General

"Armor" consists of body armor (including dragon scale mail), shields, crowns,
helmets, cloaks, gloves, and boots.  All good armor items get a bonus to AC of
+1d5+MB(5).  All great armor items get an additional bonus of +MB(10).


(2.1.1) Dragon Scale Mail

Dragon Scale Mail (DSM) has a base enchantment of +10 to AC (or +15 if the
armor is Power DSM).  Good and great DSM add to this normally, so that a great
Power DSM could theoretically be found with +35 to AC.

Each suit of dragon armor always adds 30 to the rating of a level.


(2.1.2) Body Armor

If the item is a robe, it has a 1 in 10 chance of being a Robe of Permanence.

Robe of Permanence [2,+1d10]
  Rating +30; Price Bonus +30000
  One High Resist; Resist Acid, Lightning, Fire, Cold
  Hold Life; Sustain All Stats

Otherwise:

Armor of Resist Acid [X,+0]                                    Prob: 4 in 19
  Rating +16; Price Bonus +1000
  Resist Acid; Ignore Acid

Armor of Resist Lightning [X,+0]                               Prob: 4 in 19
  Rating +10; Price Bonus +400
  Resist Lightning; Ignore Lightning

Armor of Resist Fire [X,+0]                                    Prob: 4 in 19
  Rating +14; Price Bonus +800
  Resist Fire; Ignore Fire

Armor of Resist Cold [X,+0]                                    Prob: 4 in 19
  Rating +12; Price Bonus +600
  Resist Cold; Ignore Cold

Armor of Resistance [X,+1d10]                                  Prob: 2 in 19
  Rating +20; Price Bonus +12500
  Resist Acid, Lightning, Fire, Cold

Armor of Elvenkind [X,+1d10] (+1d3)                            Prob: 1 in 19
  Rating +25; Price Bonus +15000
  Stealth
  One High Resist; Resist Acid, Lightning, Fire, Cold


(2.1.3) Shields

Shield of Resist Acid [X,+0]                                   Prob: 1 in 10
  Rating +16; Price Bonus +1000
  Resist Acid; Ignore Acid

Shield of Resist Lightning [X,+0]                              Prob: 3 in 10
  Rating +10; Price Bonus +400
  Resist Lightning; Ignore Lightning

Shield of Resist Fire [X,+0]                                   Prob: 2 in 10
  Rating +14; Price Bonus +800
  Resist Fire; Ignore Fire

Shield of Resist Cold [X,+0]                                   Prob: 3 in 10
  Rating +12; Price Bonus +600
  Resist Cold; Ignore Cold

Shield of Resistance [X,+1d10]                                 Prob: 1 in 10
  Rating +20; Price Bonus +12500
  Resist Acid, Lightning, Fire, Cold


(2.1.4) Crowns

Crown of the Magi [X,+0] (+1d3)                                Prob: 1 in 8
  Rating +15; Price Bonus +7500
  Intelligence; Sustain Int
  One Ability; Resist Acid, Lightning, Fire, Cold

Crown of Might [X,+0] (+1d3)                                   Prob: 1 in 8
  Rating +19; Price Bonus +2000
  Strength; Dexterity; Constitution
  Free Action; Sustain Str, Dex, Con

Crown of Lordliness [X,+0] (+1d3)                              Prob: 2 in 8
  Rating +17; Price Bonus +2000
  Wisdom; Charisma; Sustain Wis, Chr

Crown of Telepathy [X,+0]                                      Prob: 1 in 8
  Rating +20; Price Bonus +50000
  Telepathy

Crown of Regeneration [X,+0]                                   Prob: 1 in 8
  Rating +10; Price Bonus +1500
  Regeneration

Helmet of Seeing [X,+0] (+1d5)                                 Prob: 2 in 8
  Rating +8; Price Bonus +1000
  Resist Blindness; See Invisible


(2.1.5) Helmets

Helmet of Intelligence [X,+0] (+1d2)                           Prob: 1 in 7
  Rating +13; Price Bonus +500
  Intelligence; Sustain Int

Helmet of Wisdom [X,+0] (+1d2)                                 Prob: 1 in 7
  Rating +13; Price Bonus +500
  Wisdom; Sustain Wis

Helmet of Beauty [X,+0] (+1d4)                                 Prob: 1 in 7
  Rating +8; Price Bonus +1000
  Charisma; Sustain Chr

Helmet of Seeing [X,+0] (+1d5)                                 Prob: 1 in 7
  Rating +8; Price Bonus +1000
  Resist Blindness; See Invisible

Helmet of Infravision [X,+0] (+1d5)                            Prob: 2 in 7
  Rating +11; Price Bonus +500
  Infravision

Helmet of Light [X,+0]                                         Prob: 1 in 7
  Rating +6; Price Bonus +500
  Permanent Light; Resist Light


(2.1.6) Cloaks

Shadow cloaks have a base enchantment level of +4.

Cloak of Protection [X,+1d10]                                  Prob: 8 in 17
  Rating +10; Price Bonus +500
  Ignore Acid, Lightning, Fire, Cold

Cloak of Stealth [X,+0] (+1d3)                                 Prob: 8 in 17
  Rating +10; Price Bonus +500
  Stealth

Cloak of Aman [X,+1d20] (+1d3)                                 Prob: 1 in 17
  Rating +20; Price Bonus +4000
  Stealth
  One High Resist; Ignore Acid, Lightning, Fire, Cold


(2.1.7) Gloves

Gloves of Free Action [X,+0]                                   Prob: 4 in 10
  Rating +11; Price Bonus +1000
  Free Action

Gloves of Slaying (+1d5,+1d5) [X,+0]                           Prob: 3 in 10
  Rating +17; Price Bonus +1500

Gloves of Agility [X,+0] (+1d5)                                Prob: 2 in 10
  Rating +14; Price Bonus +1000
  Dexterity

Gloves of Power (+1d5,+1d5) [X,+0] (+1d5)                      Prob: 1 in 10
  Rating +22; Price Bonus +2500
  Strength


(2.1.8) Boots

Boots of Slow Descent [X,+0]                                   Prob: 11 in 24
  Rating +7; Price Bonus +250
  Feather fall

Boots of Stealth [X,+0] (+1d3)                                 Prob: 8 in 24
  Rating +16; Price Bonus +500
  Stealth

Boots of Free Action [X,+0]                                    Prob: 4 in 24
  Rating +15; Price Bonus +1000
  Free Action

Boots of Speed [X,+0] (+1d10)                                  Prob: 1 in 24
  Rating +25; Price Bonus +200000
  Speed



(2.2) GOOD AND GREAT WEAPONS
      ----------------------

(2.2.0) General

Weapons include melee weapons (edged/hafted weapons and polearms), diggers,
missile weapons, and ammunition.  Good weapons get a bonus of +1d5+MB(5)
to-hit and a bonus of +1d5+MB(5) to-dam.  Excellent weapons receive an
additional bonus of +MB(10) to-hit and +MB(10) to-dam.

In addition, excellent melee weapons and ammunition have a small chance to
receive boosted damage dice.  For a weapon with a damage roll (NdM), the
chance of getting improved dice is 1 in 10*N*M, with each success adding 1 to
N, and then the process repeating until the item fails an attempt.  The damage
dice for all weapons is capped at 9 dice.

Example: an excellent dagger (1d4) is generated.  There is a 1 in 40 (10*1*4)
chance for it to get another damage die.  Assume this dagger is lucky, and
succeeds.  Now it is (2d4).  Then it can try again, with a 1 in 80 chance to
become (3d4).  If this succeeds, the dagger can try for 4d4, then 5d4, etc.


(2.2.1) Melee Weapons

Weapon (Holy Avenger) (+1d6,+1d6) [+1d4] (+1d4)                Prob: 5 in 145
  Rating +30; Price Bonus +20000
  Wisdom
  Slay Demon; Slay Evil; Slay Undead
  One Sustain; Blessed; See Invisible

Weapon (Defender) (+1d4,+1d4) [+1d8] (+1d4)                    Prob: 5 in 145
  Rating +25; Price Bonus +15000
  Stealth
  Resist Acid, Lightning, Fire, Cold
  One Sustain; Free Action; See Invisible; Regeneration; Feather fall

Weapon (Blessed) (+0,+0) (+1d3)                                Prob: 5 in 145
  Rating +20; Price Bonus +5000
  Wisdom
  One Ability; Blessed

Weapon of Westernesse (+1d5,+1d5) (+1d2)                       Prob: 5 in 145
  Rating +20; Price Bonus +20000
  Strength; Dexterity; Constitution
  Slay Orc; Slay Giant; Slay Troll
  Free Action; See Invisible

Weapon of Extra Attacks (+0,+0) (+1d2)                         Prob: 5 in 145
  Rating +20; Price Bonus +10000
  Extra Attacks

Weapon of Melting (+0,+0)                                      Prob: 5 in 145
  Rating +15; Price Bonus +8000
  Acid Brand; Resist Acid

Weapon of Shocking (+0,+0)                                     Prob: 5 in 145
  Rating +20; Price Bonus +4500
  Electric Brand; Resist Lightning

Weapon of Burning (+0,+0)                                      Prob: 5 in 145
  Rating +20; Price Bonus +3000
  Fire Brand; Resist Fire

Weapon of Freezing (+0,+0)                                     Prob: 5 in 145
  Rating +15; Price Bonus +2500
  Frost Brand; Resist Cold

Weapon of Slay Animal (+0,+0)                                  Prob: 8 in 145
  Rating +18; Price Bonus +3500
  Slay Animal

Weapon of Slay Evil (+0,+0)                                    Prob: 8 in 145
  Rating +18; Price Bonus +3500
  Slay Evil

Weapon of Slay Undead (+0,+0)                                  Prob: 8 in 145
  Rating +18; Price Bonus +3500
  Slay Undead

Weapon of Slay Demon (+0,+0)                                   Prob: 12 in 145
  Rating +14; Price Bonus +2500
  Slay Demon

Weapon of Slay Orc (+0,+0)                                     Prob: 12 in 145
  Rating +10; Price Bonus +2500
  Slay Orc

Weapon of Slay Troll (+0,+0)                                   Prob: 12 in 145
  Rating +10; Price Bonus +2500
  Slay Troll

Weapon of Slay Giant (+0,+0)                                   Prob: 12 in 145
  Rating +14; Price Bonus +2500
  Slay Giant

Weapon of Slay Dragon (+0,+0)                                  Prob: 8 in 145
  Rating +18; Price Bonus +3500
  Slay Dragon

Weapon of *Slay* Animal (+0,+0) (+1d2)                         Prob: 2 in 145
  Rating +20; Price Bonus +6000
  Intelligence
  Slay Animal; Regeneration

Weapon of *Slay* Evil (+0,+0) (+1d2)                           Prob: 2 in 145
  Rating +20; Price Bonus +5000
  Wisdom
  Slay Evil; Blessed

Weapon of *Slay* Undead (+0,+0) (+1d2)                         Prob: 2 in 145
  Rating +24; Price Bonus +8000
  Wisdom
  Slay Undead; See Invisible

Weapon of *Slay* Demon (+0,+0) (+1d2)                          Prob: 3 in 145
  Rating +16; Price Bonus +4000
  Intelligence
  Slay Demon

Weapon of *Slay* Orc (+0,+0) (+1d2)                            Prob: 3 in 145
  Rating +14; Price Bonus +4000
  Dexterity

Weapon of *Slay* Troll (+0,+0) (+1d2)                          Prob: 3 in 145
  Rating +14; Price Bonus +4000
  Strength
  Slay Troll

Weapon of *Slay* Giant (+0,+0) (+1d2)                          Prob: 3 in 145
  Rating +16; Price Bonus +4000
  Strength
  Slay Giant

Weapon of *Slay* Dragon (+0,+0) (+1)                           Prob: 2 in 145
  Rating +24; Price Bonus +6000
  Constitution
  XDragon


(2.2.2) Diggers

Digger of Digging (+0,+0) (+1d5)                               Prob: 1 in 1
  Rating +4; Price Bonus +500
  Tunneling
  Acid Brand; Ignore Lightning; Ignore Fire; Ignore Cold


(2.2.3) Missile Weapons

Missile Weapon of Accuracy (+1d15,+1d5)                        Prob: 4 in 10
  Rating +10; Price Bonus +1000

Missile Weapon of Velocity (+1d5,+1d15)                        Prob: 4 in 10
  Rating +10; Price Bonus +1000

Missile Weapon of Extra Might (+1d5,+1d10)                     Prob: 1 in 10
  Rating +20; Price Bonus +10000
  Extra Might

Missile Weapon of Extra Shots (+1d10,+1d5)                     Prob: 1 in 10
  Rating +20; Price Bonus +10000
  Extra Shots


(2.2.4) Ammunition

Ammunition of Hurt Animal (+0,+0)                              Prob: 2 in 10
  Rating +10; Price Bonus +25
  Slay Animal

Ammunition of Hurt Evil (+0,+0)                                Prob: 2 in 10
  Rating +10; Price Bonus +25
  Slay Evil

Ammunition of Hurt Dragon (+0,+0)                              Prob: 1 in 10
  Rating +10; Price Bonus +35
  Slay Dragon

Ammunition of Flame (+0,+0)                                    Prob: 1 in 10
  Rating +10; Price Bonus +30
  Fire Brand

Ammunition of Frost (+0,+0)                                    Prob: 1 in 10
  Rating +10; Price Bonus +25
  Frost Brand

Ammunition of Wounding (+1d5,+1d5)                             Prob: 3 in 10
  Rating +5; Price Bonus +20


(3) OTHER ITEMS WHICH CAUSE FEELINGS
    --------------------------------

Amulet of the Magi [+1d5+MB(5) to AC] (+1d5+MB(5) to searching)
  Rating +25
  Free Action, See Invisible; Ignore Fire, Cold, Acid, Lightning

Ring of Speed (+1d5+MB(5)+xd1(1 in 2) to speed)
  Rating +25
