
====== Character Attributes ======


Score:
     Sangband uses a scoring system.  You get points by defeating unique (named)
opponents, and lose them for buying more skills.  However, once you earn a
score, it can never go down; you will never be penalized for buying skills after
you defeat an opponent.
     Because there are relatively few limits on skill advancement, you can
become very strong indeed before you fight opponents.  However, those who buy
fewer and less expensive skills to build their character get better scores.

Approximate equation:
     (250 * monster_depth * monster_depth),
     divided by
     (level of each skill, times the base cost of that skill, all summed
      together)
+50% for defeating Sauron or
+100% for defeating Morgoth

                "The best score yet reported is 4614."


Experience:
     As you kill monsters, learn about objects by using or eating them, cast
spells and pray prayers for the first time, disarm traps, and unlock doors
(listed in descending order of importance), you gain experience.  Once earned,
experience can be spent on skills.

Power:
     Your power depends on the level and base cost of your skills.  The primary
effect of this is to increase hit points, but it also has other effects.  The
maximum power level is 100.

Gold:
     Gold is amazingly handy, because everything stores sell can be yours with
enough of the stuff.  Characters start out with an amount of gold determined by
stats (lower is better, except charisma, where higher is better).  Social class
greatly influences starting gold (higher is better).
     Inside the dungeon lies more gold than you will ever find, more seams of
treasure than you will ever dig, and more monsters carrying loot than you will
ever kill.

Hitpoints:
     Your hitpoints are your life wrapped up in a number; if they ever drop
below zero, you die.  Resting will restore hitpoints, but you should always have
some quicker way to heal yourself on hand.  Your maximum hitpoints depends on
your overall power, race, and constitution.  It also varies according to skill:
Those who have taken the Oath of Iron have the highest number of hitpoints,
Oath-bound magic-users have the lowest, and all other characters fall somewhere
in between.

Spellpoints:
     If you use magic, you will also have spellpoints, or mana.  Your maximum
mana depends on your magic power skill and your intelligence (if you are using
sorcery and necromancy) or wisdom (if you are using natural or holy magics).
Ways to recover mana faster than by resting are rare and greatly desired.
     Mana goes down if you wear heavy armour, or are in any shape other than
your normal one.  Sorcerers and Necromancers also lose a chunk of mana if they
wear most (but not all) kinds of gloves.

Armor Class:
     Armor class makes you harder to hit in melee, and reduces the damage you
take from almost all monster blows.  You may raise it by equipping more and
better armor, by increasing your Dexterity, and by activating various temporary
effects.  As time passes, you will find this value rising past 100, even to 150
and above at very high levels.

Fame and Titles:
     As word of your accomplishments spreads, you earn new titles.  Titles
describe what skills you're especially good at.
     You can also gain fame, especially by fulfilling quests.  The higher your
fame, the better the rewards you get from the Inn.

Luck:
     On rare occasions you can become unlucky.  Unlucky characters meet nastier
monsters and less interesting treasure.  Although there is no way to magically
restore lost luck, it slowly recovers as you continue to explore the dungeon.
     If you want to keep careful track of your luck, you can go into options ->
screen layout -> left panel, and activate the "luck" display.


--- Vital Statistics ---

     You have six primary statistics, or stats.  Each of them has important
effects, and how you juggle equipment to boost some stats at the expense of
others can greatly help or hinder your adventuring.  Deep in the dungeon,
potions exist that can permanently raise your stats.
     The lowest any stat can go is 3, a level that greatly reduces any abilities
that stat influences.  The lowest "safe" figure for most stats is 7, but you
can't expect any significant bonuses until the stat reaches 18 or higher.  Once
you get a stat that high, further increases will greatly enhance your abilities,
eventually making it possible to slay some truly formidable monsters.  Stats max
out at 18/220.
     Stats depend on your internal stats (which range from 3 to 18/100), the
equipment you are wearing, your shapechange, and various temporary conditions.
Learning any magic realm increases its spell stat by 2.  If you also take the
Oath associated with that realm, this bonus increases to 4.  Taking the Oath of
Iron increases the combat stats, and good wrestlers and users of Karate get
bonuses to strength and dexterity.


Strength:
     Strength is critical to fighting effectively in melee and with missile
weapons.  Increases in Strength increase damage, allow you to get more blows
with heavier weapons, and boost the effectiveness of shield bashes.  Strength
also improves your tunneling ability, allows you to bear more weight without
being slowed down, and wield heavier melee and missile weapons effectively.

Intelligence:
     Intelligent characters use magic devices, pick locks, and disarm traps more
effectively.
     If you are using sorcery or necromancy, intelligence is your primary stat.
It controls how many spells you may learn, the amount of mana you have, and your
spell failure rate.  If you are using holy or natural magics, wisdom controls
all of these things.

Wisdom:
     Wise characters have a better chance of resisting magical spells cast upon
them by monsters.  Wisdom is a priest or druid's primary stat.

Dexterity:
     Dexterity is a combination of agility and quickness.  A high dexterity may
allow you to get multiple blows with lighter weapons, and will significantly
increase your chances of hitting with any weapon and dodging blows from enemies.
Dexterity is also useful in picking locks, disarming traps, and protecting
yourself from some of the thieves that inhabit the dungeon.  It affects your
rate of recovery from stuns.

Constitution:
     Constitution determines your ability to resist physical damage and disease,
and your rate of recovery from from poison, disease, and cuts.  It makes a great
difference to the amount of hitpoints you have and the speed at which you
recover them, and so is a vital stat for any character.

Charisma:
     Charisma represents a character's ability to influence others.  A character
with a high charisma will receive better prices from store owners, whereas a
character with a very low charisma will be robbed blind.


--- Abilities ---

     In addition to your stats, certain basic abilities define your character.
They depend on race, stats, and skill level.  You can most effectively keep
track of your abilities by using the Character screen.

Melee Ability:
     The higher your melee ability, the more frequently you will hit in hand-to-
hand combat and the more critical hits you will get.  Your race, dexterity,
melee weapon or barehanded skill, plusses to Skill on equipped items, and
temporary effects are all factored into the skill value displayed on your
character screen.  This also holds true for missile and throwing ability.

Shooting Ability:
     The higher your shooting ability, the more frequently you will hit with
missile weapons and the more critical hits you will get.

Throwing Ability:
     All sorts of things, from flasks of oil, to boulders, to potions and
mushrooms, can be thrown effectively.  The higher your throwing ability, the
more frequently you will hit with thrown objects, and the more damage and
critical hits you will get with special throwing weapons.

Saving Throw:
     The higher your saving throw, the more likely you are to resist the side
effects of monster blows and spells, traps, your own magic (when it fails), and
mental attacks.  Saving throw depends on race, wisdom, and your magic resistance
skill.

Stealth:
     The ability to move silently about is very useful.  If your stealth is good
enough, you can avoid fights, get in the first blow, and fight monsters one at a
time.  Stealth depends on race and your stealth skill.

Disarming:
     The higher your disarming ability, the more quickly and safely you can pick
locks and disarm chests and traps.  Dexterity and Intelligence both affect this
ability, as does the disarming skill.

Magical Devices:
     Determines how likely you are to succeed in using staffs, wands, rods, or
any activatable item.  Race and intelligence both affect this ability, as does
your magical device skill.  You need a lot of skill to handle high-level wands,
staffs, and rods, and also a fair amount for certain rings, amulets, and special
wearable items.

Perception:
     The higher your perception, the more likely it is that you will see traps
and secret doors automatically or by searching for them.  Perception depends on
race and your perception skill.
     Note that this ability has no direct relationship to your ability to sense
objects or hear monsters.

Infra-vision:
     The higher your infravision, the further away you can see warm-blooded
creatures, even when invisible or not lit.

















