
================ Saving, Loading, Winning, Cheating, and Dying =================

     Saving and loading your character should be easy.  So, sadly, is getting 
him killed.  Winning is a little harder, but the novice player can take 
advantage of various cheats to improve his chances down in the dungeon.


=== Saving and Loading your Game, and Importing Angband Savefiles ===

     Depending on the port of Ponyband you are playing, you will have various 
saving and loading commands available to you.  DOS, IBM, and UNIX versions use 
the commands described in the help file "cmddesc.txt", while Macintosh and 
Windows users may also use menu options (normally found in the "file" menu).  
Be warned that the Macintosh uses preference files to determine where saves 
should go; it may take a little fiddling before you make them appear where you 
want them to.  If you get errors when saving your game, make sure the lib/save 
directory exists and, on multi-user machines, that you have write permission.

     If you are playing most ports of Ponyband, the game will automatically load 
any savefile named "player" found in <<whatever directory Ponyband is in>>
/lib/save/.  Under other systems, the game will wait for you to select a menu 
option (normally found in the "file" menu) and choose a savefile to load.  
     If the character contained in that savefile is dead, you are asked to 
generate a new adventurer, who possesses all the monster memories of the slain 
hero and starts out using the same options.  Otherwise, you continue your game 
where you left off.

     Because of the severe race changes in Ponyband, savefiles from Oangband,
FAangband, and Angband cannot be imported.


=== Winning The Game ===

     Once your character is ready, he/she should head to level 100 of the
Castle of the Royal Pony Sisters. Nightmare Moon lurks on this level of her 
dungeon, and you will not be able to go below his level until you have killed 
her.  Try to avoid wandering around on level 100 unless you are ready for her, 
since she has a habit of coming at you across the dungeon with some nasty 
tricks up her metaphorical sleeve to slay you for your impudence.

     Nighmre Moon cannot be killed by some of the easier methods used on normal
creatures.  Nightmare Moon, like all other "Unique" monsters, will simply 
teleport away to another region of the level if you attempt to use a spell 
such as destruction upon her.  Nightmare Moon, like some other monsters, cannot
be polymorphed, slept, charmed, or genocided.  Magical spells like Mana Storm 
and Annihilation are effective against her, as are some of the more powerful 
weapons, but she is difficult to kill and if allowed to escape for a time will 
heal herself rapidly.

     If you should actually survive the attempt of killing Nightmare Moon, you 
will receive the status of WINNER.  You may continue to explore, and may even 
save the game and play more later, but since you have defeated the toughest 
creature alive, there is really not much point.  Unless you wish to listen to 
the rumors of more powerful items buried somewhere in the dungeon...

     When you are ready to retire, simply "commit suicide" (using the "Q" key)
to have your character entered into the high score list as a winner.  Note that 
until you retire, you can still be killed, so you may want to retire before 
wandering into a room with 95 Power Dragons crammed inside...


=== Upon Death and Dying ===
 
     If your character's hit points fall below zero, he dies.  The dreaded 
tombstone will appear, and you may then dump a record of your character to a 
document in the /lib/files folder.  Afterwards, you see all of your possessions 
(identified) on screen.

     Your character will leave behind a reduced save file, which contains only
the monster memory and your option choices, both of which new characters may 
use.  It is very helpful to know something about the monster that slew your 
ancestor!

Cheating Death:  For those who, like myself, find such information helpful...
     One of the really neat things about Angband is that your character's life 
is so important.  Let him die, and you start over from scratch.  This is one of 
the secrets to this game's fascination; anyone who cheats death is really not 
getting the full Angband experience, and any Morgoth-slayers or Nightmare 
Moon-killers yanked from the jaws of death are not full winners.
      But what if your characters seem to die all the time (like mine!), and you 
really want to keep playing with the same guy?  Well, Angband has a few answers 
for that too.  You may cheat death by:
     -toggling on the "cheat death" option (see the help file "optdesc.txt").  
      This keeps your character ticking, and is even kind enough to give you a 
      running tally of your deaths by setting the character's age to zero when 
      first activated, and increasing it by one each time thereafter.
     -making backup savefiles.
     -Aborting the game just as the tombstone appears or before.

Good luck!
