=== Creating a Character ===

Angband is a roleplaying game, in which you, the player, control a character
in the world of Angband.  Perhaps the most important thing you control is the
birth of your character, in which you choose or allow to be chosen various
attributes that will affect the future life of your character.

To create a character, you must first pick his or her gender - this has
no real effect on the game. Next, you should choose (or let the computer 
randomly assign you by pressing '*') the character's race. Then, you may
choose what class you want to play. Note that not all race/class combinations
are supported - those displayed in grey have either incompatible statistics
or other attributes. You can recieve a random class (selected from the 
supported choices) by pressing '*'.

At any time when selecting your character's basic characteristics, you can
change the birth options by pressing '='. Finally, you will have to generate 
the character's attributes - the exact method used to do so depends on the 
birth options (for additional help on these issues check the birth options 
help file).

You may start the entire process over at any time by pressing ESC, or quit
the game by pressing CTRL-X. 

Once you have accepted a character you will asked to provide a name for the
character.  In general, the actual choice of a name is not important, but do
keep in mind that it may have some effect on the game itself.  For example,
on some machines, the chatacter name determines the filename that will be
used to save the character to disk.  On others, the character name specifies
special "pref" files.  Also, the character name is used on the high score 
list.
