
====== Burglary ======

     All special burglary actions other than talents can be used by typing the
'+' (alter) key, and then moving towards a monster (to steal), a passable grid
(to set a trap), or a door (to lock it).  Burglars cannot use most of these
abilities when shapeshifted.

Stealing  (requires a skill of 4):
     Stealing is lucrative but risky.  All monsters that drop anything will have
at least some treasure on them.  Humans, humanoids, and dragons are the juiciest
targets, and most other smart bipedal creatures, nagas, or wraiths are fairly
well-off too; the higher the monster level, the larger the purse.  Uniques are
especially rich.  High-level monsters and other thieves are harder to steal
from, but sleeping monsters are easier.  But burglary is not all fun and games.
Every time you steal on a level, the monsters get warier.  Steal too often, and
you may very quickly get hunted down.

Locking doors  (requires a skill of 7):
     Burglars may lock closed doors; locking a door makes it more difficult for
monsters to open.  The power of the lock increases with skill.

Trap-setting  (requires a skill of 10):
     Of all the many things that only burglars can do, setting traps is the most
important.  Depending on your burglary skill, you may have between one and six
traps active at any one time.  It takes three turns to set up a trap (this is
normally automatic but, if disturbed, you'll have to issue the command a few
times).
     You then load the trap with one or more objects by typing '+', and moving
towards an existing monster trap.  Traps may be loaded with melee weapons,
missile weapons, potions, scrolls, wands, staffs, rods, or anything that can be
thrown.  You can only load the trap with one kind of object; the two exceptions
to this are that you need to supply a missile weapon with suitable ammunition,
and that you can pack in boulders to your heart's content.
     The damage traps do depends on your burglary skill and on the objects you
use.  A skilled burglar can make traps which use magical devices that he cannot
understand, wield weapons that he cannot lift, and fire missiles with deadly
accuracy regardless of combat skill.

Monsters and Traps:
     Whenever a monster enters the grid containing the trap, several things can
happen.  Firstly, ghosts and evasive monsters get a (large) chance to ignore the
trap entirely.  Secondly, smart monsters get a chance to disarm the trap, and
all non-ghostly monsters get a chance to smash it.  If the trap is neither
avoided nor destroyed, it goes off.
     A single non-perfectly balanced weapon will get melee blows, a missile
launcher will fire one or more shots, a potion will smash, a scroll will be
read, a charged wand, staff, or rod will activate, and anything else will be
thrown.  In essence, a trap is like getting a free chance to do damage without
being in harm's way.
     Most weapon attributes (Skill, Deadliness, multipliers, slays, brands, and
number of blows or shots, but not critical hits) are treated much they are in
normal combat.  The damage of most items other than scrolls and ordinary thrown
objects varies depending on burglary skill.

Light Weapons, Sneak Attacks, and Backstabs:
     Burglars are better with light weapons than anyone else.  With them, they
can get quite significant bonuses to combat Skill.  Conversely, their penalty
for heavy weapons goes up with skill until it is twice the normal amount.  Your
character screen display takes all of this into account.
     Burglars get extra bonuses to Skill against sleeping monsters in melee,
when shooting, and when using special throwing weapons.  If they go into
sneaking mode, and melee a sleeping monster, they may sometimes be able to land
sneak attacks, which act as unusually powerful critical hits.  Note:  You cannot
sneak-attack a monster, then use a wand of sleep monster on it, then sneak
attack it again.
     Burglars can also backstab fleeing opponents (this acts as a general
increase to hit chance).

















