Characters
==========

Your character in Cthangband is defined by a series of statistics
(usually abbreviated to 'stats').

The main stats of a character, and what they represent are listed below.

Primary Stats
=============

These are the basic defining features of your character. Each one is
listed on a scale that normally ranges from 3-18. If one of your primary
stats is on the very edge of human limits, it will be given a
'percentile' after it. For example, after 18 comes 18/01. These
percentiles go up to 100, and then the stat is beyond the normal human
limits and carries on counting normally (19, 20 etc.).

In general, a starting character may have one or two stats in the
percentile range, but is unlikely to have any above that.

Your primary stats are determined both by your race and by the template
that you start with.

STR (Strength)
This is a measure of your character's raw muscle power. It determines
how much equipment you can carry without being slowed, and also gives a
bonus in combat. With a high strength, you can penetrate an opponents
armour more easily and do more damage.

INT (Intelligence)
This is a measure of your character's ability to think logically and
work things out methodically. The main use of intelligence is in the
learning of both hedge magic and hermetic magic. With a low
intelligence, learning either of these will be severely hampered.

WIS (Wisdom)
This is a measure both of the amount of knowledge your character has,
and the amount of common sense they possess. It is used mainly by
mindcrafters, as only knowledge of the world will allow its Chi flows to
be harnessed.

DEX (Dexterity)
This is a measure of how quick and agile your character is. Its main use
is in combat, both to help you hit an opponent and to help you avoid
being hit yourself.

CON (Constitution)
This is a measure of how tough your character is. A high constitution
will give a bonus to the amount of damage you can take before falling
unconscious.

CHR (Charisma)
This is a measure of how well you can get on with people. It is partly
determined by looks, but mainly involved with personality. This stat is
vitally important to shamans as they need to be able to persuade spirits
without angering them.

Secondary Stats

As well as your six primary stats, you also have three secondary stats.
These are determined both by your primary stats and by your skills. Each
of these has both a 'Current' and 'Maximum' score, and the current score
slowly regenerates until it reaches the maximum.

HP (Hit Points)
This score is based on the level of your Toughness skill, although you
get a bonus based on your CON. It determines how much damage you can
take in combat before falling unconscious and dying. Most attacks do
damage rated in hit points, and when you run out you die.

SP (Spell Points - also known as 'Mana')
This score is based on the level of your Mana Channeling skill and on
your INT. Casting hermetic spells costs SP, and when you are drained you
need to rest before casting more. It is possible to cast a spell without
having enough mana - although it is dangerous and is not recommended.

CH (Chi)
This score is based on the level of your Chi Balance skill and on your
WIS. It is used up by using mindcrafting powers. Like hermetic magic, it
is possible to use powers when you have run out of Chi, although risky.

RACES
=====

There are 30 races available for you to play in Cthangband. Each of them
has its own advantages. Each race also has an 'EXP Factor' which
determines how quickly that race learns. This is based on the human
rate, and is a percentage (so, for example, an exp factor of 200 means
that the race in question takes twice as long to learn as humans do).
Each race also has modifications to the base stats for a character.

Barbarian (EXP Factor 120%)
{STR:+3 INT:-2 WIS:-1 DEX:+1 CON:+2 CHR:-2}
Barbarians are the humans from the land of Cimmeria. This is a harsh
land and its inhabitants, while being tough, have little time for
learning.

Broo (EXP Factor 140%)
{STR:+2 INT:-2 WIS:-1 DEX:-1 CON:+2 CHR:-4}
Broo are a type of beastman, twisted by the dark gods that the race
worships. The more 

Cyclops
Dark Elf
Draconian
Dwarf
Elf
Gnome
Golem
Great One
Half-Elf
Half-Giant
Half-Ogre
Half-Orc
Half-Titan
Half-Troll
High Elf
Hobbit
Human
Imp
Klackon
Kobold
Mind Flayer
Nibelung
Skeleton
Spectre
Sprite
Vampire
Yeek
Zombie

Templates
=========

Although all characters can learn any skill, a beginning character will
start with a given set of skills depending on what template they choose.
The template will also alter the values of their primary stats. It is
important to note that once the game has started, the template of a
character has no further effect.

Adventurer
Swashbuckler
Gladiator
Warrior Monk
Zen Monk
Assassin
Ranger
Shaman
Mindcrafter
Mage
Warlock
Powerweaver
Tourist
