=== The Alchemical Circles ===

You will fairly often find broken magical circles like this in the dungeon:

    \
/    \
\    /
 \  /

As you can see, the pattern is broken in one place. To complete the circle, you
need to first move on the empty square, and the pour (drop) a Powder Vial.

 @  \
/    \
\    /
 \  /

You need to make an Alchemy skill check to complete the pattern. If you fail,
the Powder Vial is wasted.

You may 'I'nspect a Powder Vial to find out what kind of circles it completes.
Some powders always complete a certain circle. For example, dropping a Powder
Vial of Sleeping on the broken pattern makes a Circle of Illusions out of the
broken circle. Other powders have two possible circles, chosen randomly when
you complete the circle.

In my own games, two basic circles have become essential tools: Circle of
Lifeforce and Circle of Knowledge.


=== All seven circles ===

Circle of Lifeforce restores and sustains STR, DEX, CON and experience points.
It also cures and protects from the effects of disease. Undead and demons have
difficulties moving (80 % fail) or attacking in melee (50 % fail) on a Circle
of Lifeforce.

Circle of Illusions increases spell range by 7 squares and makes your influence
spells (not devices) harder to resist. Animals, persons and humanoids have
difficulties moving (80% fail) or attacking in melee (50 % fail) on a Circle of
Illusions.

Circle of Nexus restores and sustains MEM, WIS and PRE. All teleportation
effects other than Phase Door will take you to the Circle of Nexus. Any
teleporting monster (for whatever reason) will also end up there.

Circle of Recall will call you back when your hitpoints are at 20 % of maximum
or lower.

Circle of Summoning summons a group of monsters when completed.

Circle of Knowledge gives +7 to Lore calculations. When your MEM+WIS+bonus
reaches 20, 30, 40, 50 or 60 you gain either more Lore points or better
proficiencies.

Circle of Permanence will make any positive temporary status effect started
inside the circle last until you leave the dungeon level.


=== Ritual Magic ===

Some spell books can often be purchaced from the town. These books are called
the "town spellbooks". Other spell books can only be found in the dungeons.
They are "dungeon spellbooks". Finally, some spell books are one of the kind,
true artifacts.

Every dungeon and artifact spellbook contains a ritual. 'I'nspect the book to
find out everything about the ritual. Here's an example ritual from The Lore of
the Hunter (ranger's own spellbook).

   This tome contains the Ritual of Wisdom. You may use the ritual by dropping
   the book on a Circle of Recall. The book is consumed in the process. The
   ritual's power is MEM+WIS-1d20. For each full 10 power points, gain a point
   of Wisdom.

All rituals use the same mechanics but they do different things. For example,
there's a ritual that permanently increases your infravision by one square per
10 power points. Another raises all of your resistances by 3 points per a 10
power points. Yet another summons powerful weapons, one weapon per 10 power
points.

Hint: offer a gift to an intellectual goddess and wield a Torch of Wisdom
before attempting rituals. Ritual magic takes careful planning.
