
====== Basic Command Information ======

Canceling a Command:
     Virtually all commands can be canceled at any point before execution by
hitting the ESC key.

Selecting an Object:
     You may select objects in your backpack (your inventory), on your person
(your equipment), or on the floor underneath you.  If you issue a command that
uses or manipulates any item, you may hit the spacebar or type "*" to display or
hide a list of all the objects that command can accept.  If the command can
accept objects both on your person and in your backpack, you can hit '/' to
cycle between the two.  If an object that the command can accept is lying on the
floor underneath your feet, you can type "_" to use that item.  You then select
the exact item by typing its index letter; if you want to play it safe, and get
an "are you sure" message, type the letter in uppercase.
     Spellcasting works very similarly.  You type 'm' or 'p', select a book, and
select a spell within that book.  You can even use books on the floor.

Command Counts:
     Any command that can be repeated, or that can manipulate more than one
object, can take a count.  By default, most that do are automatically given a
count of 99.  Although most commands that usually need a quantity will ask for
one, for other commands a quantity is only sometimes desired.  Hence command
counts.  For example, to tunnel into a wall exactly 50 times, you would type a
zero ("0"), then "50", followed by a return.  Then use the tunnel command.  All
commands that use quantities will stop if you are disturbed, accomplish your
intended task, hit any key, or when the count expires.

Targeting:
     The target command ("*") makes it possible to set up a location or fix a
monster as the point which you want future missiles and spells to aim for.  Some
other commands also allow use of the targeting interface (normally by typing
'*').  However you begin targeting, you have a number of options available to
you.
  ESCAPE and "q" :  Exit targeting mode.  Cancel target.
  "p"    :  Return to the player.
  "o"    :  Start looking at all grids (exact control).
  "m"    :  Start looking only at monsters (if any monsters are around).
  "+"    :  Look at next monster or interesting grid.
  "-"    :  Look at previous monster or interesting grid.
  "r"    :  (If cursor is on a monster) recall monster information.
  "t"    :  Target grid or monster.
  space  : see monster's carried objects (if looking)
  return : continue looking

     If you have the "use old target by default" option on, be careful about
clearing targets on the floor when done.

Targeting -- line of fire:
     Line of fire (LOF) is reflexive:  if you can hit it with bolts or missiles,
it can hit you -- and vice-versa.  However, you (and your foes) have wider
fields of view, and can see many things that can't be hit.  The monster health
bar serves as a handy indicator:  When a monster is not in LOF, its health bar
is bracketed in grey.  If it is in LOF, it will be bracketed in green if you can
fire upon it directly with arrows or bolts, and white otherwise.
     If using targeting mode to aim a missile, you are not allowed to select a
monster not in direct line of fire (although you can target its grid by typing
'o', then 't').

Doing More with Less Effort:
     In the help file "macro.txt" is a section on making macros to:
- quickly switch to a shovel or backup weapon,
- fire a missile or cast commonly used spells with a single keystroke,
- prevent accidental use of valuable equipment,
- and many other things



====== Command Descriptions ======

     Command names are followed by one or two characters:  the first is that
used in the original keyset; the second, that used in the roguelike keyset.


Inventory list (i) :
     Displays a list of objects in your backpack.

Equipment list (e) :
     Displays a list of objects you are currently wielding, wearing, are
carrying in your quiver, or otherwise have immediately to hand.

Drop an item (d) :
     Drops an item from your inventory or equipment onto the floor.  If the grid
you are standing on has 20 objects already, or contains terrain that cannot hold
objects, the object will wind up nearby.  This command takes half a turn.

Destroy an item (k) / (Ctrl-D) :
     Destroys an object in your inventory or on the dungeon floor.  If the
"verify destroy" option is active, you must verify this command.  This command
takes a full turn.

Wear/Wield equipment (w) :
     Wears or wields an object in your inventory or from the floor.  Since only
one object can be in each slot at a time, if you wear or wield an item into a
slot which is already occupied, the old item will first be taken off.  If there
is no room in your inventory, it drops to the floor.  This command takes a full
turn.
     Wearable objects prefer certain slots, and each item usually takes up one
slot.  There are exceptions, however:  Depending on item type and weight, you
can wield one weapon and a shield, one weapon in both hands (with your shield
ending up on your back), or a weapon in either hand.  More details about all
this are available in the non-magical combat section.

Take off equipment (t) or Take off equipment (T) :
     Use this command to take off a (uncursed) piece of equipment and return it
to your inventory.  If there is no room in your inventory for the item, your
pack will overflow and you will drop the item after taking it off.  This command
takes half a turn.

Switch primary and secondary weapon (X) :
     Actually a keymap, this command exchanges whatever weapon you have wielded
with the first weapon in your inventory inscribed {@0} or {@w0}.  This is very
handy for swapping in and out shovels.  This command takes a full turn.


--- Movement Commands ---

Stay still -- with normal pickup (,) / (.) :
     Stay in the same square for one move.  If you normally pick up objects you
encounter, you will pick up whatever you are standing on.  You may also use the
"5" key (both keysets).  This command takes a full turn.

Walk -- with normal pickup (;) :
     This command activates every time you press a direction key; it moves you
one step in the given direction.  This command takes a full turn.
     If the auto-pickup option is on, you will try to pick up objects
automatically.  If the option to prompt before picking things up is off, you
will grab everything you encounter until your backpack is full.  If this option
is on (recommended after the first few levels of the dungeon), you will be asked
about objects.

Walk -- flip pickup (-) :
     Walk.  If you normally pick things up, don't.  Otherwise, do.  This command
takes a full turn.

Run (.) / (,) :
     This command is very useful for rapid dungeon exploration.  It will move
you in the given direction, following any bends in the corridor, until you
either have to make a choice between two directions or are disturbed.  Most
players run by holding down Shift and pressing a direction key.

Go up staircase (<) :
     Ascends an up staircase you are standing on.  Going up a staircase will
take you to a new dungeon level unless you are at 50 feet (level 1), in which
case you will return to the town.  This command takes a full turn.

Go down staircase (>) :
     Descends a down staircase you are standing on.  Going down a staircase will
take you to a new dungeon level.  This command takes a full turn.


--- Special Action Commands ---

Get objects (g) :
     Pick up objects and gold on the floor beneath you.  Picking up gold takes
no time, and objects take 1/10th of a normal turn each (maximum time cost is a
full turn).  You may pick up objects until the floor is empty or your backpack
is full.

Rest (R) :
     You recover from wounds twice as fast by resting than by repeatedly staying
still.  This command can be told to stop automatically after a certain amount of
time, or when various conditions are met.  In either case, you always wake up
when anything disturbing happens, or when you press any key.
     After typing 'R', use "*" to rest until your hitpoints and mana are
restored, and "&" to rest until you are fully "healed".  This command may accept
a command count (used for the number of turns to rest), and takes a full turn.

Easy rest (x)   (not available in the roguelike keyset) :
     Actually a macro, this command automatically makes you rest until your HPs
and mana are restored or you are disturbed.  It is included to cut down on wrist
stress and allow more effective waiting.

Search (s) :
     Search for hidden traps, secret doors, and essences in nearby spaces.  More
than a single turn of searching will be required in most cases.  This command
can take a count, which is useful if you are confident of finding something
eventually, since the command stops as soon as anything is found.  This command
takes a full turn.

Toggle sneaking mode (S) / (#) :
     If you have a stealth skill of at least 10, allows you to start and stop
sneaking.  See the talent "sneaking" for more details.


--- Dungeon and Object Alteration Commands ---

Tunnel (T) / (Ctrl-T) :
     This command allows you to dig through barriers, mine treasure found in
wall seams, and otherwise alter the dungeon to your liking.  This command may
take a count and requires a full turn.

Open a door or chest (o) :
     Opens a door or chest.  If locked, you will attempt to pick the lock based
on your disarming ability.  If you open a trapped chest without disarming the
traps first, they will activate.  Some doors will be jammed shut and may have to
be bashed open.  This command takes a full turn.
     You may just the "easy_open" option to open doors that you walk into.

Close a door (c) :
     Some monsters cannot open doors, so shutting them can be quite useful.
Broken doors cannot be closed.  This command takes a full turn.

Jam a door (j) / (S) :
     Many monsters can simply open closed doors, and can eventually get through
a locked door.  You may therefore occasionally want to jam a door shut with iron
spikes.  Each spike used on the door will make it harder to bash down the door,
up to a limit of eight.  This command takes a full turn.

Bash a door (B) / (f) :
     This command allows you to bash down jammed doors.  Your door bashing
ability increases with strength.  Bashing open a door can (briefly) throw you
off balance, makes a lot of noise, and sometimes ruins the door.  All doors can
be bashed; jammed or spiked doors will not open any other way.  You may also
bash chests.  This command takes a full turn.

Disarm a trap or chest / Desanctify a glyph (D) :
     You can attempt to disarm known traps or glyphs on the floor or on chests.
If you have a disarming skill close to the trap level, disarming by hand will be
safer than using magic; otherwise, magic is preferable.  If you fail to disarm a
trap, there is a chance that you will blunder and set it off.  This command
takes a full turn.

Alter (+) :
     This special command allows the use of a single keypress to select any of
the dungeon alteration commands above (attack, tunnel, bash, open, disarm,
close), and, by using macros or keymaps, to combine this keypress with
directions.
     For burglars, it also allows stealing, door-locking, and setting traps.
This command takes a full turn.


--- Spell and Prayer Commands ---

Browse a book (b) / (P) :
     Open a readable book and read the spells.  You may select spells by
pressing their index letter; as you do, extra information appears (unless the
spell level is greater than your spellcasting skill).  This command takes no
time.

Gain new spells or prayers (G) :
     When you are able to learn new spells or prayers, the word "Study" will
appear on the status line at the bottom of the screen.  You then issue this
command and choose a book with unlearnt magics.  Pious characters get a prayer
at random; characters of all other realms may choose.  This command takes a full
turn.

Cast a spell or Pray a Prayer (m and p) :
     Casts a known spell or prayer.  This command takes a full turn.


--- Player Manipulation Commands ---

End/Default shapechange (]) :
     Returns you to your normal state if you have previously transformed
yourself into any creature.


--- Object Manipulation Commands ---

Eat some food (E) :
     Eat some food or a mushroom.  This command takes a full turn.

Fuel your lantern/torch (F) :
     You can refuel lanterns with flasks of oil and torches with other torches.
In general, two flasks will fully fuel a lantern and two torches will fully fuel
a torch.  This command takes half a turn.

Quaff a potion (q) :
     Drink a potion.  This command takes a full turn.

Read a scroll (r) :
     Read a scroll.  Most scrolls which prompt for more information can be
aborted (by pressing escape), which will stop reading the scroll before it
disintegrates.  This command takes a full turn.

 Inscribe an object ({) :
     Inscribes an object.  The inscription appears inside curly braces after the
object description.  The inscription is limited to the particular object (or
pile) and is not automatically transferred to all similar objects, unless the
"Merge Inscriptions when Stacking" option is on.

Uninscribe an object (}) :
     Removes the inscription on an object.  This command will have no effect on
inscriptions added by the game itself (such as "{cursed}").


--- Magical Object Commands ---

Activate an object (A) :
     You have heard rumours of special wearable item deep in the Pits, ones that
can let you breath fire like a dragon or light rooms with just a thought.
Should you ever be lucky enough to find such an item, this command will let you
activate its special power.  This command takes a full turn.

Aim a wand (a) / (z) :
Use a staff (u) / (Z) :
Zap a rod (z) / (a) :
     Uses the indicated kind of magical device.  This command takes a full turn.


--- Throwing and Missile Weapons ---

Fire an item (f) / (t) :
     You may fire ammunition if you are wielding a missile weapon that uses it.
See the non-magical combat section for more information.  This command takes a
full turn unless you are using a weapon of extra shots.

Throw an item (v) :
     You may throw any object carried by your character.  See the non-magical
combat section for more information.  This command takes a full turn.

Targeting Mode (*) :
     This command allows you to aim directly at a specific monster or grid.  See
above for more information.


--- Information Commands ---

Full screen map (M) :
     Shows a map of the entire dungeon, usually reduced by a factor of nine, on
the screen.  Only the major dungeon features will be visible because of the
scale, so even some important objects may not show up.  This is particularly
useful in locating where the stairs are relative to your current position, or
for identifying unexplored areas of the dungeon.  This command takes no time.

Locate player on map (L) / (W) :
     This command lets you scroll your map around, looking at all sectors of the
current dungeon level, until you press escape, at which point the map will be
re-centered on the player if necessary.  To scroll the map around, press any of
the direction keys.  The top line will display the sector location, and the
offset from your current sector.  This command takes no time.
     This command also has another use:  it automatically adjusts the map panel
to give you a better view in your direction of travel.  If worried about
offscreen monsters with nasty ranged attacks, this is one way to protect
yourself.

Look around (l) / (x) :
     This command is used to look around at nearby monsters (to determine their
type, health, and carried objects) and objects (to determine their type).  It
can also be used to find out what objects (if any) are under monsters or traps,
if a monster is currently inside a wall, and what is under the player.  See the
description of targeting mode for more information.  This command takes no time.

Observe an item (I) :
     This command provides extra object information.  If you know nothing about
the object, you see generic information about the object kind.  If you have
identified or otherwise know the object, a object description will also often
appear.  If you have fully *identified* an object, you will recall all the
special object attributes.  This command takes no time.


--- Message Commands ---

Repeat level feeling (Ctrl-F) :
     Displays your feeling about the dungeon level.  If you are currently on a
quest, a description of it will also appear.  This command takes no time.

View previous messages (Ctrl-P) :
     This command shows you all the recent messages.  You can scroll through
them or exit with ESCAPE.  This command takes no time.

Take notes (:) :
     This command allows you to take notes, which will then appear in your
message list (prefixed with "Note:").  This command takes no time.


--- Saving and Exiting Commands ---

Save and Quit (Ctrl-X) :
     Saves your character to file and exits the game.  Save files will also be
generated (hopefully) if the game crashes due to various errors.  After you die,
you can use your savefile to play again with the same options, monster memory,
etc.

Save (Ctrl-S) :
     This command saves the game but doesn't exit it.  Use this frequently (or
turn on the autosave option) if you are paranoid about having your computer
crash (or your power go out) while you are playing.

Quit (commit suicide) (Q or Ctrl-K) :
     Kills your character and exits the game.  You will be prompted to make sure
you really want to do this, and then asked to verify that choice.  Note that
dead characters are dead forever.


--- Information Commands ---

Character Description (C) :
     Brings up a full description of your character.  From this screen, you can
change names, reveiw attributes, or save your character status to file.

Check knowledge (~) :
     This command allows you to ask about the knowledge possessed by your
character.  Currently, this includes being able to display the high scores, list
all known artifacts, uniques, objects, the foes you have slain, and the contents
of your home.

Help (?) :
     Brings up the on-line help system.

Identify Symbol (/) :
     Use this command to find out what a character represents.  For instance, by
pressing "/", then ".", you will learn that the "." symbol stands for a floor
spot.  If you press return, you'll see a list of special uses for this command.
     If the character stands for a creature, you are asked if you want to recall
details.  If you answer yes, information about the creatures you have
encountered with that symbol is shown in the Recall window if available, or on
the screen if not.  You can also answer "k" to see the list sorted by number of
kills, or "p" to see the list sorted by dungeon level the monster is normally
found on.  Pressing ESCAPE at any point will exit this command.

Game Version (V) :
 This command will tell you what version of the game you are playing.


--- Preferences Commands ---

Interact with options (=) :
     Interact with options.  See the options section for more information.

Interact with macros (@) :
     Interact with macros.  See the macro and keymaps section for more
information.

Interact with visuals (%) :
     Interact with visuals.  See the visuals section for more information.

Interact with colors (&) :
     Interact with colors.  This command only works on some systems.  See the
visuals section for more information.

Interact with multimedia (!) :
     Adjust sound volume, change between graphics and text, and any other things
that the port of the game you are using allows.  This command only works on some
systems.  See the visuals section for more information.


--- Extra Commands ---

Toggle Choice Window (Ctrl-E) :
     Toggles the display in any sub-windows (if available) which are displaying
your inventory or equipment.

Redraw Screen (Ctrl-R) :
     This command adapts to various changes in global options, and redraws all
of the windows.  It is normally only necessary in abnormal situations, such as
after changing the visual attr/char mappings, or enabling graphics mode.

Load screen dump (left-paren) :
     This command loads a "snap-shot" of the current screen from a file and
displays it on the screen.

Save screen dump (right-paren) :
     This command dumps a "snap-shot" of the current screen to a file, including
encoded color information.

Repeat last command (n) or ([) :
     Repeats the previous command, selecting the same objects, spells, etc., you
choose last time.


Special Keys:
     Certain special keys may be intercepted by the operating system or the host
machine, causing unexpected results.  In general, these special keys are control
keys; often you can disable their special effects.

     It is often possible to specify "control-keys" without actually pressing
the control key, by typing a caret ("^") followed by the key.  This is useful
for specifying control-key commands that might be caught by the operating system
as explained above.

     Pressing backslash ("\") before a command will bypass all keymaps, and the
next keypress will be interpreted as an underlying command key.  The backslash
key is useful for creating macro actions which are not affected by any keymap
definitions that may be in force; for example, the three-character sequence
"\.6" will always mean "run east", even if the "." key has been mapped to a
different underlying command.

System-specific notes:
     If you are playing on a UNIX or similar system, then Ctrl-C will interrupt
the game.  The second and third interrupt will induce a warning bell, and the
fourth will induce both a warning bell and a special message, since the fifth
will quit the game, after killing your character.  Also, Ctrl-Z will suspend the
game, and return you to the original command shell, until you resume the game
with the "fg" command.  There is now a compilation option to force the game to
prevent the "double ctrl-z escape death trick".  The Ctrl-\ and Ctrl-D and Ctrl-
S keys should not be intercepted.

















