
============================== Mouse Interface ================================

This file describes how to control FAangband using the mouse, pointer, stylus
or whatever.

=== The mouse in general play ===

This section describes how to use the mouse to issue a command at the player's
turn.

-- Movement --
Movement commands are the most commonly used in FAangband, and these are very
simple with the mouse.  To take a step, click on the adjacent grid you want to 
step to.  To move toward a particular non-adjacent grid, click on it; this 
invokes the pathfinding algorithm, which will try to find a way to your 
destination.

-- Object menu --
To interact with objects (equipment, inventory, or on the floor), click on the 
player stats area.  This will bring up an inventory menu; clicking on the
correct part of the prompt line will switch to the equipment or floor.  Click
on an item to choose it; this will bring up a menu of commands which can be 
performed with this item.  Clicking the command will perform it.

If a quantity is required, a prompt with ++/-- will appear; click ++ to 
increase the quantity or -- to decrease.  Decreasing below 0 will wrap around 
to give the maximum quantity.

-- Player menu --
Most commands not involving objects are accessible from the player menu, which 
is opened by clicking on the player symbol.  The player menu includes map
related commands, grid altering commands, taking stairs or paths and option 
and knowledge commands.

-- Other places to click --
There are some parts of the screen which when clicked will immediately issue
a command.  These are:

* Clicking on the character title area gives the 'C' character screen command;

* Clicking on the HP display gives the 'R' rest command;

* Clicking on the SP display gives the 'm' or 'p' cast or pray command;

* Clicking on the "Spec." message (when the character can learn a new specialty
ability) gives the 'O' specialty command;

* Clicking on the "Study" message (when there are unknown spells to learn) 
gives the 'G' gain spell command;

* Clicking on the top line of the screen gives the "^P" previous messages
command;

* Clicking on the location (region and danger level) name gives either the 'H'
move house command (if in a town) or the "^F" repeat level feeling command (if
not in a town);

* If the "mouse_buttons" option is set to yes, text "buttons" [Stand], 
[Return], [Repeat] and [ESC] will appear in the status area.  Clicking these 
give the '5' stand still command, a return keypress, the 'n' repeat command
and an escape keypress respectively.

* If you are playing the Windows CE version, there is also a toolbar with 
configurable macro buttons.


=== The mouse at other times ===

After giving the initial command for a turn, there are usually other 
keypresses needed.  How the mouse is used for these depends on the command;
it is meant to do the obvious thing to do.  In general, clicking on the 
description of which key to use will have the same effect as using the key.  
For example, after using the '=' command, a list of option screens appears.
Clicking on one of these will bring up that screen; clicking on the words
"ESC to quit" will quit.  If in doubt, experiment; generally everything you 
can do can be done by mouse-clicks.

In any menu, clicking an item will select it.

-- Targetting --
When aiming a spell or missile, clicking on a monster will select it as the 
target; clicking on an unoccupied grid will aim in the direction of that grid; 
clicking on a grid adjacent to the player is like using the arrow key for that 
direction.  When not attacking a monster, clicking on a grid will put the 
cursor on that grid.  If there is a monster there, clicking a second time will 
bring up the monster recall for that monster; if not, that grid will be 
selected as a target.


=== Problems ===

The mouse interface is fairly new, and possibly not bugfree.  One known issue 
is that sometimes a list of items will not contain all the items of the 
correct type.  Fixing this is a matter of exhaustively fixing all the places
where it occurs.  If this happens to you, please (1) try again; it should work 
the second time and (2) report it so that one can be fixed.