
====== Options ======

Various concepts mentioned below
  "disturb"    : cancel any running, resting, or repeated commands
  "flush"      : forget any keypresses waiting in the keypress queue, including
                 any macros in progress
  "fresh"      : dump any pending output to the screen

Options you may want to change to your preferences include:
- Roguelike commands, if you are used to the commands used in certain other
  roguelike games.
- Checking that the Hitpoint warning is non-zero can save your character's life.
- Set the delay factor to two or more if you want to see pretty ball
  explosions and whatnot.
- Playing around with the lighting options in the Visual Interface section
  can be a lot of fun.

Saving options:
     Whenever you save options, you have essentially three choices of filenames:
- <<character's name>>.prf : affects only that character
- <<race name>>.prf        : affects all characters of that race
- user.prf                 : affects all of your characters

     These rules also apply to other kinds of preferences.


--- Birth Options ---

     You may only change birth options when starting up a new character.

Allow specification of minimal stats          [birth_autoroll]  (on) :
     Allows you to specify minimum stats when creating a character.  Characters
are randomly generated until one is found to meet your requirements.

Restrict the use of stairs/recall             [birth_ironman]   (off) :
     Can never go up.  Can never use recall until you win the game.  No stairs
are ever placed under you when you change levels.  Adds 40% to score.

Ironman Play:
     "Go down into the dungeon.  Return with Morgoth's Crown or not at all."
In Ironman mode, you can never go up any staircase, and can never return to the
surface by any means, until victorious.  If by accident you do, you must
immediately return to the dungeon.
     Some forms of Ironman play require that you visit no stores before going
into the dungeon, or that you must use a down staircase as soon as you see it
("crash-dive ironman"), but they are variants on the basic theme.

Lock the doors of stores and the home         [birth_no_stores]  (off) :
     Cannot use any stores or your home.  If you are not playing ironman, adds
15% to score.

Do not create artifacts                       [birth_no_artifacts]  (off) :
     No artifacts will appear.  Adds 10% to score.

No stairs back the way you came               [birth_no_return_stair]  (off) :
     Never generate a staircase back to the level you came from, even if you
used a staircase.  If you are not playing ironman, adds 5% to score.

Monsters exploit players weaknesses           [birth_smart_cheat]  (off) :
     Allow monsters to know what spell attacks you are resistant to, without
having to learn them by trial and error, and to use this information to choose
the best attacks.  Adds 7% to score.


--- Option Set #1:  Game Behavior ---

Rogue-like commands                           [rogue_like_commands]  (off) :
     Selects the "roguelike" command set, which uses eight of the letter keys to
move the character about.  This command set can be really useful if you have no
number pad, and some people just naturally prefer it.  However, the original
command set has considerably more unused keys available for macros and keymaps.

Verify destruction of objects                 [verify_destroy]  (on) :
     Gives you an "are you sure" message when you try to destroy an object.

Pick things up by default                     [always_pickup]  (off) :
     When you walk onto any object, you will attempt to pick it up.  Note the
"-" command, which can be used to reverse this option for a single turn.
     Because picking up objects always takes time (1/10th of a turn for every
object picked up, unless you are staying still), it is recommended that you also
turn on "query_floor".

Display things before picking them up         [query_floor]  (on) :
     The game will display more information about objects you walk on, including
their weight.
     If you have the "always_pickup" option on, it will prompt you to pick up
objects.  If you don't, it will simply display a list.

Never haggle in stores                        [never_haggle]  (off) :
     You never haggle in stores, regardless of the markup the shopkeeper asks
(which can be as great as 33% on extremely valuable items).

Use old target by default                     [use_old_target]  (off) :
     Forces all commands which normally ask for a direction to use the current
target if there is one.  Use of this option can be dangerous if you target
locations on the ground, unless you clear them when done.

Run past stairs                               [run_ignore_stairs]  (on) :
     Ignore stairs when running.

Run through open doors                        [run_ignore_doors]  (on) :
     Ignore open doors when running.

Run past known corners                        [run_cut_corners]  (off) :
     Cut sharply around known corners when running.  This will result in faster
running (which matters if you are fleeing), but may cause you to run into a
lurking monster.

Merge inscriptions when stacking              [stack_force_notes]  (on) :
     Force otherwise identical objects to merge, even if one has an empty
inscription and the other does not.  The resulting stack keeps the non-empty
inscription.

Merge discounts when stacking                 [stack_force_costs]  (off) :
     Force otherwise identical objects to merge, even if they have different
discounts.  The resulting stack keeps the largest discount.

Allow quantity specification                  [allow_quantity]  (on) :
    Prompt for a quantity when necessary, instead of defaulting to a single
object.  If you prefer to enter command counts before commands instead of typing
quantities when prompted, turn this option off.


--- Option Set #2:  Disturbance and Warning ---

Disturb whenever any monster moves            [disturb_move]  (on) :
     Disturb the player when any visible monster moves, appears, or disappears,
whether in line of sight or out of it.

Disturb whenever viewable monster moves       [disturb_near]  (on) :
     Disturb the player when any viewable (visible and in direct line of sight)
monster moves, whenever any monster becomes viewable, and whenever any viewable
monster becomes no longer viewable.

Disturb whenever map panel changes            [disturb_panel]  (on) :
     This option causes you to be disturbed by the screen scrolling, as it does
when your character gets close to the edge of the screen.

Disturb whenever player state changes         [disturb_state]  (on) :
     This option causes you to be disturbed whenever the player state changes,
including changes in hunger, resistance, confusion, etc.

Disturb whenever boring things happen         [disturb_minor]  (on) :
     This option causes you to be disturbed by various minor things, including
monsters bashing down doors, beginning to run out of fuel, and changes in the
weather.

Alert user to critical hitpoints              [alert_hitpoint]  (on) :
     Make a noise and flush all pending input when your hitpoints reach the
hitpoint warning.  Make certain you also adjust the hitpoint warning.

Alert user to various failures                [alert_failure]  (off) :
     This option is currently unused.

Ring bell on error                            [ring_bell]  (on) :
     Attempt to make a "bell" sound upon various failures or illegal inputs.

Activate quick messages                       [quick_messages]  (on) :
     Allows the use of any keypress as a response to the "-more-" prompt, except
when you are badly wounded.

Compress messages in savefiles                [compress_savefile]  (off) :
     Compress the savefile, saving only the most recent player messages.  This
can cut the size of the savefile substantially, but will result in the loss of
message information.

Flush input on various failures               [flush_failure]  (on) :
     This option forces the game to flush all pending input whenever various
failures occur, such as failure to cast a spell, failure to use a wand, etc.
This is very useful if you use macros that include directional components with
commands that can fail, since it will prevent you from walking towards monsters
when your spells fail.

Flush input whenever disturbed                [flush_disturb]  (on) :
     This option forces the game to flush all pending input whenever the
character is disturbed.  This is useful if you use macros that take time, since
it will prevent you from continuing your macro while being attacked by a
monster.

Colored messages when hit hard                [colored_hit_msg]  (on) :
     The harder you are hit, the more colorful the damage message will be.

Special colors for hurt character             [colored_hurt_char]  (on) :
     Your character symbol will change color depending on your health.


--- Option Set #3:  Visual Interface ---

Map remembers all perma-lit grids             [view_perma_grids]  (on) :
     Memorize all perma-lit floor grids seen by the player.   This option allows
you to keep track of which explored floor grids were perma-lit.
     Turning off this option allows the player to always know which lit floor
grids are in line of sight, but (if you are using color) this is better
accomplished by the "view_sight_light" option.  Note that any non-floor grids
seen by the player are always memorized, and objects seen by the player are
memorized independently from the grid itself.

Map remembers all torch-lit grids             [view_torch_grids]  (off) :
     Memorize all floor grids which have ever been lit up by the player.

Use special colors for torch-lit grids        [view_torch_light]  (off) :
     If the option "view_floor_light" is also on, floor grids that are only lit
by the player's own light source will appear yellow.  If the option
"view_wall_light" is on, walls will be colored in the same way.  Turning this
option off will slightly increase the speed of the game.

Use special colors for field of view          [view_sight_light]  (off) :
     If the option "view_floor_light" is also on, those floor grids that the
player can see directly appear white, and all other known grids appear dark
gray.  If the option "view_wall_light" is on, walls will be colored in the same
way.  Turning this option off will slightly increase the speed of the game.

Use special colors for wall grids (slow)      [view_wall_light]  (off) :
     If either the option "view_torch_light" or "view_sight_light" is on, wall
grids will change color depending on lighting conditions instead of always being
gray.  This option may not work well if the attr/char codes for walls/veins have
been changed, or if graphics are being used.  Turning it off will slightly
increase the speed of the game.

Use special colors for floor grids (slow)      [view_floor_light]  (off) :
     If either the option "view_torch_light" or "view_sight_light" is on, floor
grids will change color depending on lighting conditions instead of always being
black or white.  This option may not work well if the attr/char codes for floors
have been changed, or if graphics are being used.  Turning it off will slightly
increase the speed of the game.

Highlight the player with the cursor          [highlight_player]  (off) :
     Place the visible cursor on the player.  This looks fine on some UNIX
machines, but horrible on most graphics machines.

Flush output after various things             [fresh_after]  (off) :
     This option forces the game to flush all output not only after every player
command, but also after every round of processing monsters and objects, and
after every message.  This maximizes your information, but may slow down the
game (especially on slower machines) and on faster machines you cannot see the
results anyway.

Don't hide traps when objects pile on them    [traps_display_on_top]  (on) :
     Traps display on top of objects, and you need to look at the grid to
determine if any objects are underneath.  If this option is not selected,
objects hide traps.

Show dungeon level in feet (or meters)        [depth_in_feet]  (off) :
     Display dungeon depths in feet (meters if the "use_metric" option is used)
instead of levels.

Show labels in equipment listings             [show_labels]  (on) :
    Display "labels" (what an object is being used for) for objects in all
equipment listings.

Show weights in all object listings           [show_weights]  (on) :
     Display weights (in pounds or kilograms) of objects in all inventory,
equipment, store, and home listings.

Show flavors in object descriptions           [show_flavors]  (on) :
     Display "flavors" (color or variety) in object descriptions and information
screens, even for objects whose type is known.  This does not affect objects in
stores.

Use Metric (SI) measurements                  [use_metric]  (off) :
     Display a variety of measurable quantities using metric measurements.
Conversions are:  3 meters ~ 10 feet, 1.0 kilograms ~ 2.2 pounds.

Menus pop up when selecting various things    [always show list]  (on) :
     If selecting anything from a list, that list will automatically pop up.



--- Option Set #4:  Screen Display ---

Window Flags:
     Some platforms support multiple windows, which can display all sorts of
useful information.  The best thing about these windows is that they are
(usually) updated automatically to reflect the current state of the world.

  inven/equip:       Display the player inventory (and equipment).
  equip/inven:       Display the player equipment (and inventory).
  character screen:  Display the main character screen.
  equipment flags:   Display the character screen's equipment flags section.
  messages:          Display recent messages and notes.
  overhead view:     Display an overhead view of the dungeon.
  monster recall:    Display a description of the target monster.
  object recall:     Display a description of the most recently selected
       object.  Currently this only affects spellbooks and prayerbooks.  This
       window flag may be usefully combined with others, such as monster recall.
  snap-shot:        This window flag is currently unused.

Screen Layout:

Force 25_line mode:   (on) :
     The main screen will appear in 25 lines, using a font higher than it is
wide.  If this option is off, the main screen will appear in 50 lines, using a
font of equal width and height.

Number of rows used to show the dungeon:  (22) :
     If force_25_line mode is on, the dungeon will always appear in 22 rows.
Otherwise, it may appear in 22, 33, or 44 rows.  The reason why dungeon display
rows are always divisible by 11 is that rooms align to 11x33 blocks.
     There are three great advantages to showing the dungeon in 44 rows:
Firstly, you are guaranteed 20 grids of clear viewing in your direction of
travel whenever you hit the 'L' (or 'W') key.  Secondly, even the biggest rooms
fit within a screen 44 grids high and 66 wide.  Thirdly, you have more space for
custom display rows.

Minimum vertical view distance:    (2)  :
     Fully documented on-screen.

Minimum horizontal view distance:  (4) :
     Fully documented on-screen.

Customized left panel rows:   (none preset) :
     Below the monster health bar on the left side of the main screen are a
number of empty rows in which you can display information.  A few of these
duplicate information also shown below the main map.
     The single most useful display item is that showing the closest monster;
with it active, you need never be surprised by an offscreen breather again.


--- Option Set #5:  Difficulty and Cheating ---

Peek into object creation                     [cheat_peek]  (off) :
     Cheaters never win.  But they can peek at object creation.

Peek into monster creation                    [cheat_hear]  (off) :
     Cheaters never win.  But they can peek at monster creation.

Peek into dungeon creation                    [cheat_room]  (off) :
     Cheaters never win.  But they can peek at room creation.

Know complete monster info                    [cheat_know]  (off) :
     Cheaters never win.  But they can know all about monsters.

Allow player to avoid death                   [cheat_live]  (off) :
     Cheaters never win.  But they can cheat death.


--- Miscellaneous Options ---

Hitpoint warning:
     If non-zero, is the percentage of maximal hitpoints (x10) that you start
get special warnings and cannot use most keys to clear messages.  It is also
used as the cut-off for using red to display both hitpoints and mana, and (if
the "colored hurt char" option is active) for displaying your character in red.

Delay Factor:
     The "delay_factor" value, if non-zero, will slow down the visual effects
used for missile, bolt, beam, and ball attacks.  The actual time delay is equal
to "delay_factor" squared, in milliseconds.

Autosave:
     You may set the game to save your character every so often by using the
autosave option.  Tweak the timer until you are satisfied.

















