
=============================== Character Birth ===============================

     This file describes your character and his creation.  It discusses the 
races and classes available in Ponyband; racial and class tables are provided 
at the bottom.


=== Creating a Character ===

Ponyband is a role-playing game, in which you, the player, control a character
during the return of Nightmare Moon.  Perhaps the most important thing you 
control is the birth of your character, in which you choose or allow to be 
chosen various attributes that will affect his future adventures.

You choose a race, a class, and may set various birth options.  You may start 
over at any time by pressing 'S'.

Once you have accepted a character you will asked for a name.  The actual 
choice of a name may have some effect on the game itself.  It is used to 
specify character-specific preference files, is shown in the high score 
list, and, in some operating systems like Macintosh and Windows, is used to 
save the character to disk.


=== Races ===

There are eleven different races that you can choose from in Ponyband, 
representing most of the races seen in Friendship is Magic.  Some races will
have difficulty with some professions, and each race has its own adjustments 
to a character's stats and abilities. Most races also have intrinsic abilities.  
     Alicorns are especially designed for new and inexperienced players, and 
are not recommended for veterans.  Humans and Baby Dragons also make good races
for players new to Angband in general and Ponyband in particular. Zebra, and 
Mules particularly are only recommended for experienced players.

***** <Earth-Pony>
     Earth Pony:
         Earth Ponies are the most common type of pony in Ponyville. They are 
		 known for their physical strength and stamina, as well as their skill
		 at working the earth.
		 As quadrupeds, they can't wear gloves or rings, but can wear 2 pairs
		 of footwear.  They also have difficulty firing bows with their hooves.
         Earth Ponies are very skilled at physical classes, but their inability
		 to use arcane magic means that they make poor Rogues and Assasins and
		 should completely avoid being a Mage or Necromancer.  They are able to
		 resist being stunned. They also have strong saving throws and are good
		 at searching and have high health.
 
***** <Pegasus>
     Pegasus:
         Pegasi normally hail from Cloudsdale, but they also appear in large
		 numbers in Ponyville.  With their abilities to fly and walk on clouds,
		 they frequently have jobs maintaining the weather, though jobs that 
		 requires a great deal of speed are also common.
		 As quadrupeds, they can't wear gloves or rings, but can wear 2 pairs
		 of footwear.  They also have difficulty firing bows with their hooves.
		 Pegasi are quick, but there light bodies are somewhat weaker and less
		 durable, and many are prone to rash action. Pegasi can fly allowing 
		 them to avoid pits and giving them the highest natural speed of any 
		 race. This bonus makes them work well in most classes, but their 
		 inability to use arcane magic can cause problems for Rouges and 
		 Assassins and make being a Mage or Necromancer nearly impossible.  
		 Despite their inability to use magic, they are good with magic 
		 devices.
 
***** <Unicorn>
     Unicorn:
         Primarily from Canterlot, Unicorns still make up a noteworthy part of
		 Ponyville.  Unicorns are able to use their horns to channel magic. 
		 All adult Unicorns can use their magic for telekinesis, those some
		 study the art of magic in more depth.
		 As quadrupeds, Unicorn cannot wear gloves, but can wear two pairs of
		 footwear.  They are able to wear a single ring on their horn, but
		 doing so can restrict their ability to use magic.
		 Unicorns are very intelligent and are skilled with magic devices, but
		 they lack the natural resiliance of the other races.
 
***** <Alicorn>
     Alicorn:
	     (Special race for players new to Ponyband.  Score is reduced by 50%)
         Alicorns are extremely powerful and extremely rare beings that possess
		 the strength of Earth Ponies, Pegasi, and Unicorns combined. At 
		 present, the only three know Alicorns are Princess Celestia, Princess 
		 Cadance, and Princess Luna, who is now Nightmare Moon.
		 Alicorns are Quadrupeds and as such, cannot wear gloves, but can wear
		 two pairs of footgear. They can also wear a single ring on their horn,
		 but this restricts their ability to use magic.
		 Their vital statistics put all other races to shame, their standard 
         abilities are always good and sometimes superlative, and they recover 
         divinely quickly from all sorts of wounds and ailments, and are not 
	     slowed in water like other races.  They are perfect for those desiring a 
	     character able to survive the perils of an unfamiliar game.
 
***** <Baby-Dragon>
     Baby Dragon:
         While fully grown dragons are far too large to venture into a dungeon,
		 and tend to be cruel and capricious, making them ill-suited for pony
		 society, it is not unheard of for a mage to take on a young dragon as
		 an assistant.  This is especially common at Celestia's School for 
		 Gifted Unicorns, which has at times used this as part of their 
		 entrance exam.
		 Dragons are able to breathe fire and are naturally resistant to it as
		 well.  Due to their young age, they tend to be somewhat weak and nieve
		 but their small size leaves them rather agile and they are still 
		 dragons, with all the durability that comes with that. They have some
		 infravision, allowing them to see warm blooded creatures in the dark
 
***** <Zebra>
     Zebra:
         An Equine from a far off land, these would be easily mistaken for 
		 ponies if not for their black and white striped coats.  They are not 
		 often seen in Equestria and as a result are often viewed with fear and
		 suspision.
		 As quadrupeds, they can't wear gloves or rings, but can wear 2 pairs
		 of footwear.  They also have difficulty firing bows with their hooves.
		 Their strong oral tradition makes for strong Priests and Paladins, but
		 their inability to use arcane magic can hinder them in other classes 
		 that use magic.
		 They have a strong medical tradition, recognizing the medicinal 
		 properties of local flora, giving them quick treatments for poisons 
		 and cuts.  They also have a small degree of infravision.
 
***** <Diamond-Dog>
     Diamond Dog:
         The Diamond Dogs and large bipedal canines that dwell underground,
		 digging for gems and gold. Their underground life has lead to strong
		 vision, even to the point of being able to see warm blooded creatures
		 in the dark, as well as some resistance to poison. Diamond Dogs are
		 extremely good at digging, even without tools. The life of a Diamond
		 Dog is one of hard labor, making the Diamond Dogs strong and tough, 
		 but with little education, they are not very knowledgeable. They tend 
		 to smell foul and be poorly mannered and ill-tempered, leaving them 
		 rather unwelcome among ponies.
 
***** <Griffon>
     Griffon:
         A flying race of half-lion, half-eagles.  They once preyed on ponies
		 for food, but have since left this way of life behind, though midtrust
		 still persists in many areas.  Griffons are very strong and have 
		 poweful wings giving them a quick speed.  Although Griffons walk on
		 all fours, their talons can easily hold an manipulate objects, unlike
		 a pony's hoof. However, if they have both of their claws full, the
		 difficulties dealing with the awkard posture would counteract the 
		 speed benefits of their wings.

***** <Buffalo>
     Buffalo:
         The Buffalo are a tribal race found in some areas of Equestria. Quite
		 at home on the plains, they set up temporary settlements in an area,
		 but later pack up and stampede to a new location, cycling their 
		 grazing through the area over a period of time.  The Buffalo are 
		 physically imposing and strong and tough to the point that even 
		 magical attempts to weaken them will fail. While the Buffalo do not 
		 have a formal education system, they have a strong oral tradition 
		 passed on to their young. Because of the wide grazing range of the
		 Buffalo, it is not uncommon for new pony settlements to be established
		 in lands used by the Buffalo, resulting in poor relations between 
		 ponies and Buffalo.
		 As quadrupeds, they can't wear gloves or rings, but can wear 2 pairs
		 of footwear.  They also have difficulty firing bows with their hooves.
         Buffalo are very skilled at physical classes, but their inability
		 to use arcane magic means they should completely avoid being a Mage or
    	 Necromancer. This combined with low steath and device skills also 
		 hinders them as Rogues or Assassins.
 
***** <Mule>
     Mule:
         The offspring of a Pony and a Donkey, Mules are rare in Equestria but
		 still common enough that seeing one in a small town would not be any
		 real event.  Mules show a degree of the strength of their Earth Pony 
		 heritage, but aren't quite as quick or tough. They are, however, able
		 to go long periods of time with little food.
		 As quadrupeds, they can't wear gloves or rings, but can wear 2 pairs
		 of footwear.  They also have difficulty firing bows with their hooves.
		 Like their parents, they have no way to channel arcane magic, leaving
		 the unsuited to become a Mage or Necromancer and weakening them as a
		 Rouge or Assassin.
 
***** <Human>
     Human:  
         Humans are a bipedal ape that are almost never seen in Equestria 
		 outside of myth and folklore, and rarely by reliable sources. They are
		 generally just considered a myth, like Bighoof or Space Ponies.  
		 Naturally, anything to do with them gets viewed with suspicion. If 
		 they do exist, their hands would likely leave them far more skilled
		 at ranged weapons than your average pony.
		 
=== Classes ===
 
Nine different classes are available in Ponyband.  Some classes are not re-
commended for certain races; for instance, an Earth Pony would be a very 
confused Mage.  More information about magics available to each class can 
be found in the help file "magic.txt".  For the first few adventures it is 
suggested that you run a warrior, rogue, or paladin.  The pure spellcasters 
generally require a more experienced player that is familiar with survival 
techniques.  Different classes have access to different specialty abilites 
(described in "specialt.txt").

It is important to note that the magic of the Mage, Necromancer, Rogue, and
Assassin, collectively known as arcane magic, requires the use of a horn or
fingers to cast spells. Any race that lacks those will find themselves at a
potentially crippling disadvantage.

***** <Warrior>
     Warrior:
         The great melee fighter, capable of doing more damage and surviving 
         longer at close quarters than any other class.  So skilled in combat 
         can a warrior become that he gains permanent protection from fear at 
         level 30, learns to probe for weaknesses (see the help doc 
         "magic.txt") at level 35, can spread attacks out among weaker 
         monsters, and regenerates intrinsically at level 40.  A 
         warrior gets an extra specialty ability at level 1.  He is 
         unchallengable with melee weapons, and is also good with all missile 
         launchers, shooting quickly with bows and crossbows.  His biggest 
         drawback is his ignorance of spells and many magical items.  Most of 
         his survival skills are average or worse.  A Warrior learns no 
         magical spells, and has poor magical defences.  He has strong 
	 pseudo-ID.  His prime stat is Strength, and a good Dexterity 
         and Constitution can really help at times.

***** <Mage>
     Mage:
         Master of sorcery.  A mage is not really happy without an assortment 
         of magical devices to use in addition to his spells.  He can master 
         the higher level magical devices far more easily than anyone else.  
         A mage fights very poorly, except with the lightest of weapons, and 
         is almost as bad at archery.  He is stealthy at low levels, but his 
         magic betrays his presence later on.  Most of his other skills are 
         mediocre.  He has excellent magical defences, but dangerously poor 
         physical ones.  He has weak pseudo-ID.  Intelligence is his primary 
	 stat, and a high Constitution is very useful.

***** <Priest>
     Priest:
         Committed to the worship of Celestia and Luna. He explores the dungeon
		 only to clease the evil that lurks within, and if treasure just 
		 happens to fall into his pack, well, so much more to the glory of 
		 Celestia! A priest is spoilt for choice with protection and healing 
		 prayers, and can wield the power of holy light like no other character
		 can.  In addition, pious characters can fight fairly well, as long as 
		 they stay away from archery and edged weapons.  They have average 
		 survival skills, but know quite a bit about magical items, and resist 
		 magic very well.  Priests gain +1 to light radius at level 35.  They 
		 have weak pseudo-ID.  Wisdom is a Priest's primary stat.

***** <Rogue>
     Rogue:
         The flexible dungeon sneaker, first in line when dungeon survival
         skills were handed out.  Rogues can fight very well with light weapons
         and shoot very quickly with slings, but have trouble with heavier 
         gear.  They can fight hand-to-hand more quietly than can any other 
         class, and gets the most effective sneak attacks against sleeping 
         monsters.  Rogues have the capacity of filching purses and setting 
         traps (use the '+' command.  See the help file "combat.txt for more 
         details).  They have strong pseudo-ID.  They will also get a fairly 
	 good collection of spells to improve their natural skills, aid in 
	 battle, and gain information.  Unfortunately, no shopkeeper trusts a 
	 rogue, and so members of this class will pay dearly for goods in town. 
	 A rogue's primary stats are Intelligence and Dexterity.

***** <Ranger>
     Ranger:
         An archer skilled in nature lore.  Rangers are better than any other 
         class with any missile weapon except slings, shooting quickly with
         slings and crosbows and very quickly with bows.  They learn about
         monsters abilities very quickly.  Rangers are better than average in
         melee, and find their spells to be mighty handy.   They have pretty
         good dungeon survival skills and stealth, but are a little uncertain
         about magical devices, and have strong pseudo-ID.  A ranger's primary 
	 stats are Wisdom and Constitution.

***** <Paladin>
     Paladin:
         A champion of Celestia.  A paladin is the second best melee fighter 
         available.  As long as he sticks to priestly weapons, his mastery of 
         the elements and of battle prayers will render him formidable to his 
         foes.  Missile weapons and magical devices confuse him.  He has 
         little stealth, and poor survival skills, but can survive as well or 
         better than any other class in battle or against magic.  He has a sub-
         set of the priestly prayers.  Plus one to light radius at level 45 
         and above.  He has strong pseudo-ID.  His primary stats are Wisdom 
	 and Strength.

***** <Druid>
     Druid:
         At one with nature.  He possesses a wide and varied range of healing, 
         dungeon alteration, and knowledge spells, plus a large number of 
         spells to hinder and reduce foes.  Can fight well bare-handed and 
         acceptably with slings, but not with other missile weapons or any 
         melee weapon.  Although a druid can do a lot of damage, his spells 
         are more random than are those of other realms.  He has decent 
         magical skill, fairly high stealth, and good magical defences.  A 
         Druid will have decent survival skills.  He has weak pseudo-ID.  His 
	 primary stat is Wisdom.

***** <Necromancer>
     Necromancer:
         Dealer in death.  He has an unsurpassed collection of highly deadly 
         combat spells, and can dish out damage like nobody's business.  His 
         magical item ability is acceptable, but virtually all of his other 
         skills are poor, and he has a hard time protecting himself.  Fortu-
         ately, at higher levels his magic can help with some of these prob-
         lems.  He has weak pseudo-ID.  His primary stat is Intelligence, and 
	 he needs to watch his Constitution.

***** <Assassin>
     Assassin:

         The death-dealing stalker.  He is better than a Rogue at melee, but 
         is still limited to reasonably light weapons.  An Assassin is deadly 
         with lighter missile launchers, and can eventually poison missiles, 
         but does not shoot especially quickly.  He is a master at using 
         thrown weapons against sleeping monsters.  He has rather good 
         stealth, but lacks protection if caught.  His other dungeon survival 
         skills are good, and he has access to a sub-set of the necromantic 
         spells.  He can shoot missiles and throw objects more quietly than 
         any other class, and makes little noise in melee as well.  An 
         Assassin will have mediocre magic skill, and poor magical defences.  
         He has strong pseudo-ID.  His primary stats are Intelligence and 
	 Strength.


=== Combinations of Race and Class (recommendations only) ===
 
                 Warrior      Priest      Ranger      Druid     Assassin
                         Mage       Rogue      Paladin      Necro

     Earth Pony    Yes   No    Yes   No    No    Yes   Yes   No    No
     Pegasus       Yes   No    No    No    Yes   Yes   Yes   No    No 
     Unicorn       No    Yes   Yes   Yes   No    No    Yes   Yes   No
     Alicorn       Yes   Yes   Yes   Yes   Yes   Yes   Yes   Yes   Yes
     Baby Dragon   Yes   Yes   Yes   Yes   Yes   Yes   Yes   Yes   Yes
     Zebra         Yes   No    Yes   No    Yes   Yes   Yes   No    No
     Diamond Dog   Yes   No    No    Yes   Yes   No    No    No    Yes
     Griffon       Yes   No    No    Yes   Yes   Yes   No    No    Yes
     Buffalo       Yes   No    Yes   No    No    Yes   Yes   No    No
     Mule          Yes   No    Yes   No    No    Yes   Yes   No    No
     Human         Yes   Yes   Yes   Yes   Yes   Yes   Yes   Yes   Yes

=== Stat Bonus and Hit Point Tables ===

                    STR  INT   WIS   DEX   CON   CHR  Hit Dice
     Earth Pony     +2   -1     0    +1    +2     0      10
     Pegasus        -1    0    -2    +4    -2     0       8
     Unicorn        -1   +3    +1    -2    -3    +1       7
     Alicorn        +2   +2    +2    +2    +3    +3      12
     Baby Dragon    -1   -1    -1    +2    +3     0      10
     Zebra           0    0    +3    +1    +1    -2      10
     Diamond Dog    +2   -2    -2    +2    +2    -2      10
     Griffon        +3   -1    -1    +2    +3    -3      12
     Buffalo        +3    0    +2    -1    +3    -3      10
     Mule           +2   -1     0     0    +1     0      10
     Human           0    0     0     0     0    -1      10

                   STR   INT   WIS   DEX   CON   CHR  Hit Dice
     Warrior       +5    -2    -2    +2    +2    -1      +9
     Mage          -4    +3     0    +1    -2    +1      +0
     Priest        -1    -3    +3    -1     0    +2      +2
     Rogue         +2    +1    -2    +3    +1    -5      +5
     Ranger        +2     0    +1    +2    +1    +0      +6
     Paladin       +2    -3    +1     0    +1    +2      +7
     Druid         -2    -2    +3    +1     0    +1      +2
     Necromancer   -2    +3    -2    +1     0    -2      +0
     Assassin      +2    +1    -3    +2    +0    -2      +4
 
 
=== Ability Tables ===

     See the help file "abilattr" for complete explanations of what each 
ability does for your character.

Abilities are ranked on a comparative scale ranging from 1 to 10.

                 disarm device save stealth search percep melee shooting
     Earth Pony    3      1    10      3      7      4      7      5
     Pegasus       6      6     7     10      2      6      2      2
     Unicorn       3     10     7      1      7      1      1      1
     Alicorn      10     10+   10+     3      5     10     10+    10+
     Baby Dragon  10      8     1      3      2      1      5      5
     Zebra         3      4     2      6      4     10      5      5
     Diamond Dog   5      1     4      6     10      4     10     10
     Griffon       3      1     1      6      3      2      7      5
     Buffalo       1      1     5      3      2     10      7      2
     Mule          2      2     5      6      3     10      5      5
     Human         9      4     4      6      5      1      5      7

                 disarm device save stealth search percep melee missile
     Warrior       5      3     5      3      4      4      10     8
     Mage          3     10     6     5->2    5      6      3      3
     Priest        3      6     8      4      5      5      5*     5
     Rogue         9      6     6      8     10     10      6      8
     Ranger        5      4     6      6      6      7      6     10
     Paladin       3      2     6      3      3      3      9*     4
     Druid         4      5     7      6      6      7      4      6
     Necromancer   3      6     4      4      4      4      3      3
     Assassin      7      5     3      7      8      8      9      9

* : With blunt weapons; otherwise much worse (use the 'I'nspect 
    command to find out which weapons are blunt)

=== Stat rollers ===

There are currently three different ways to determine the starting stats of
your character - you can choose which one to use from the birth screen.

***** <Point-based>
          Point-based
              The point-based method allows you to "buy" improvements to
              your basic stats by "spending" points on them.  You have a
              fixed number of points to spend, and making small changes
              to a stat costs proportionally less than making large changed.
              Any unspent points are converted into your starting money that 
              you can use to buy equipment at the start of the game.

              This is the recommended birth method.

***** <Autoroller>
          Autoroller
              The autoroller allows you to choose minimum values for your
              stats, and then repeated "rolls" random characters using
              Angband's traditional stat-rolling system until your criteria
              have been met (or an insanely large number of rolls have been
              made without finding one that matches your choices).

***** <Standard roller>
          Standard roller
              The standard roller is the traditional Angband method of
              determining the starting stats for a character, it simply
              "rolls" up a single set of starting values, and gives you
              the choice of asking for another "roll" to be made or 
              accepting the current outcome.  This can obviously make for
              harder characters to play than the other two methods as
              you are less likely to have high values in the stats that might
              be most useful to you.
   
    

