
====== Skills ======

     You can normally raise as many skills as you have the experience to afford.
The major exception is that you need to choose between becoming a pure
spellcaster, a spellcaster/fighter, or a pure fighter.  Any of these, however,
can become great at burglary, magical devices, or object-creation.


--- The Price of Skills --

Striking a balance:
     You should strike a balance between focusing on too few skills (the cost to
raise skills goes up rapidly with level) and too many (which fritters away your
hard-earned exp).  Raising too many skills that depend on objects (most kinds of
combat or forging, say) can also cause real problems with managing your
inventory; you just don't have enough space for everything.
     As mentioned before, the fewer times you raise skills to defeat a given
opponent, the higher your score.

Minimum experience:
     The minimum experience required to raise skills goes up with character
power, but the experience you get from killing monsters increases very rapidly
as you descend into the dungeon.

Practice:
     The price to raise certain skills goes up if you haven't used that skill
much.  For example, if you've never used edged weapons, and suddenly raise your
Swordsmanship skill 20 points, you can expect to pay considerably over the odds.
This is an excellent reason not to raise a skill too far, too fast.  This only
applies to skills that directly earn you experience:  any of the combat skills,
burglary, disarming, magic, and magical devices.
     You practice skills whenever you gain experience, and whenever you do
physical damage to a monster.
     When a skill is more difficult to raise because of lack of practice, the
skills screen will display its cost first in grey, then in yellow, orange, and
red.


--- Oaths ---

     The most powerful warrior arts and the most awesome magics require intense
commitment.  This commitment is represented by Oaths.  Taking an Oath is
binding; you can never retract it.  You can never take more than one Oath.

The Oath of Iron:
     The Oath of Iron is the greatest of commitments; none who refuse to take it
can learn the most powerful warrior arts.  Inductees can spread their blows out
among weaker monsters, can handle heavy weapons with ease, have better combat
stats, get the most bonuses to missile might and shooting speed, the most
hitpoints, and have access to several very powerful talents.  However, they can
learn no realm of magic, and cannot raise their magical device skill past 50.
     You gain access to the Oath of Iron by raising a combat skill to level 45
or above.

The Magic-users' Oaths:
     Each realm of magic also has an Oath.  Wizards may take the Oath of
Sorcery, Priests subscribe to the Covenant of Faith, Druids join Yavanna's
Fellowship, and Necromancers bind themselves to the Black Mystery.  Spellcasters
that have taken the Oath associated with their realm cast spells at full power,
have another +2 bonus to their spell stat, and eventually get plenty of mana.
However, they also are worse for their skill in all kinds of non-magical combat,
have a hard time with heavy armour, and get fewer hitpoints.  Spellcasters that
haven't taken any special Oath have only a few of these limitations, but cannot
raise their magic power skill past 50 (so they're limited to half the mana), and
cast spells at 80% strength.
     You gain access to the magic-user Oaths by choosing that realm of magic,
and then navigating to the specialist skill for that realm (wizardry, holy
alliance, etc.).


--- List of Skills ---

Swordsmanship   (cost - 13):
     Determines hit chance and critical hits with swords and other bladed
weapons.  Allows characters to wield heavier weapons without penalty, and handle
two weapons at once more effectively.
     Bladed weapons are relatively light and easy to use.  Many a hero of old
has chosen them; their battle-blades still exist.  However, most swords do not
have the raw power that the greater hafted weapons and polearms possess.
     Swordsmanship also advances other skills:  Jousting rises 1/2 as quickly,
Clubbing rises 1/4 as quickly.

Clubbing   (cost - 12):
     Determines hit chance and critical hits with blunt weapons.  Allows
characters to wield heavier weapons without penalty, and handle two weapons at
once more effectively.
     Hafted weapons tend to be heavy, sometimes very heavy, but potentially do
more raw damage than either swords or polearms.  They are also effective against
monsters that resist edged weapons.  Critical hits with blunt weapons
occasionally stun monsters.
     Clubbing also advances other skills:  Swordsmanship rises 1/4 as quickly,
Jousting rises 1/4 as quickly.

Jousting   (cost - 12):
     Determines hit chance and critical hits with pole-mounted weapons (spears,
axes, halberds, quarterstaves, etc.).  Allows characters to wield heavier
weapons without penalty, and handle two weapons at once more effectively.
Increases any armour bonus that polearms provide (bonus can be up to five times
normal).
     The more powerful polearms often require two hands to use, a real
disadvantage.  However, many polearms grant significant bonuses to armour class,
and critical hits with polearms directly rob monsters of energy.
     Jousting also advances other skills:  Swordsmanship rises 1/2 as quickly,
Clubbing rises 1/4 as quickly.

Archery - Xbows   (cost - 9):
Archery - Bows   (cost - 9):
Archery - Slings   (cost - 5):
     Determines hit chance, critical hits, and power and number of shots with
crossbows, bows, and slings.  Crossbows get higher missile multipliers, bows get
extra shots, and slings get both.  Characters that have taken the Oath of Iron
get the most bonuses and specialist spellcasters get the fewest.
     Crossbow and bow skills improve each other (1/2 as quickly).

Throwing   (cost - 8):
     Determine hit chance with any thrown object.  With special throwing
weapons, determines chance of critical hits and damage multiplier.  This skill
can make carrying around flasks of oil or ordinary daggers quite handy, and
allow you to turn potions you wouldn't want to drink and well-balanced weapons
into deadly missiles.

Wrestling   (cost - 10):
     Affects hit chance and damage when wrestling.  Sufficient increases in this
skill increase strength and also dexterity, allow you to bash doors and chests
with greater force, tunnel more rapidly, and recover from stuns more quickly.
Good wrestlers get an HP bonus of up to 50.
     Wrestling requires that you not wield a weapon (You can carry a shield,
however).  This combat method doesn't work on non-material beings, and will hurt
you if you try it on highly poisonous or acidic creatures, elementals, or
vortexes, but is fully effective against monsters that resist edged and/or blunt
weapons.  Wrestling does a lot of damage and sometimes allows you to rob
monsters of energy by throwing them to the ground.  You need to be quite strong
to be a truly effective wrestler.
     If you are a good enough wrestler, and have taken the Oath of Iron, you can
turn your skin to stone (65) or go into a berserk fury (80) at will.

Karate   (cost - 10):
     Affects hit chance and damage when using karate.  Sufficient increases in
this skill increase dexterity and also strength, allow you to dodge better and
become slightly more stealthy, and recover from stuns more quickly.
     Karate requires that you not wield a weapon (You can carry a shield,
however).  This combat method doesn't work on non-material beings, and will hurt
you if you try it on highly poisonous or acidic creatures, elementals, or
vortexes, but is fully effective against monsters that resist edged and/or blunt
weapons.  Karate does a fair amount of damage and often inflicts momentary
stunning, confusing, or slowing.  You need to be quite dexterous (and also
strong) to be a truly effective user of karate.
     If you are good enough at karate, and have taken the Oath of Iron, you can
sometimes go into a brief trance-like state (90) in which you are highly
resistant to damage.

Spellcasting   (cost - 16):
     Determines the level of spells that can be cast and the raw power of most
spells.

Magical power   (cost - 12):
     Determines the maximum amount of mana you have to spend on magic spells.
Specialist spellcasters can raise this skill to the maximum, spellcasters that
have not taken an Oath cannot raise it above level 50, and non-spellcasters
cannot raise this skill at all.

Wizardry   (cost - 7):
     Determines spell failure chance and reliability for wizards.  Allows you to
learn about base monster mana faster, and even be able to make good guesses
about current mana (especially for well-known monsters).  Protects against mana
draining attacks.
     A relatively high wizardry (and also perception) skill is essential for
reliably finding essences, especially deep in the dungeon.  You cannot search
for essences at all unless you have a Wizardry skill of 15 or higher.
     If you are not a wizard, learning wizardry grants access to a few of the
spells that wizards use as talents:  detect magic (40), semi-controlled
teleportation (50), and mana recovery (75).

Holy Alliance   (cost - 7):
     Determines prayer failure chance and reliability for priests.  Yields
warnings of demonic creatures, up to and including real-time detection.
Provides a substantial degree of protection from their blows, increases critical
hit chance*.  Eventually increases intrinsic light range (this is the only way
to get a light radius of five).  Reduces the damage you take from light, and
eventually renders you invulnerable to holy orbs.  Controls the duration and
effectiveness of protection from evil spells.  Improves your chance of sensing
cursed and blessed items.  You cannot learn both Holy Alliance and Blood
Dominion.
     If you are not a priest, learning holy alliance also gives you two special
talents:  sense evil (30) and restore stats (75).

* The extra critical hit chance and protection granted by Holy Alliance, Nature
Lore, and Blood Dominion is greatest for those who have taken the Oath of Iron,
middling for those without a magic realm, and relatively low for magic-users.

Nature Lore   (cost - 7):
     Determines lore failure chance and reliability for druids, and their
ability to forecast the weather.  Yields warnings of natural creatures, up to
and including full real-time detection.  Provides a substantial degree of
protection from their blows, increases critical hit chance.  Makes you learn
about any monster faster.  Improves personal protection and hit chance in
forested terrain.  Improves your ability to learn about mushrooms.
     If you are not a druid, learning nature lore also gives you two special
talents:  detect animals (25) and mend self (50).

Blood Dominion   (cost - 7):
     Determines ritual failure chance and reliability for necromancers.  Yields
warnings of undead creatures, up to and including full real-time detection.
Provides a substantial degree of protection from their blows, increases critical
hit chance.  Reduces the damage you take from darkness, and makes it much less
likely that you will get the Black Breath.  You cannot learn both Holy Alliance
and Blood Dominion.
     If you are not a necromancer, learning blood dominion also gives you two
special talents:  sense undead (25) and restore experience (85).

Magical Device   (cost - 13):
     Determines success rate with wands, staffs, rods, and activatable rings and
amulets and the power of most of their effects.  Makes recharging less likely to
blow up items.  Allows you to learn the true effects of magical devices and
activatable items more quickly and to automatically sense charges (70).

Burglary   (cost - 14):
     Allows you to steal gold, lock doors, and get highly effective sneak
attacks against sleeping monsters and backstabs against fleeing ones.  Most
importantly, you can set deadly traps for unwary monsters.  Burglars become
worse with heavy melee weapons but much better with light ones as their skills
improve.  They make considerably less noise in mon-magical combat.
     Burglary also advances other skills:  Disarming rises 2/3rds as quickly,
perception and sneaking rise 1/3rd as quickly, and dodging rises 1/4th as
quickly.
     Burglary grants three talents:  Nab object (40), poison ammo (55), and hit
and run (70).  It also grants three special abilities:  stealing (4), locking
doors (7), and trap-setting (10).
                         See the section on burglary.

Perception   (cost - 7):
     This talent improves your ability to find traps and hidden doors.  A
relatively small investment in it gives you hints on unidentified object quality
much more often (this is very useful, and a good reason to pay attention to this
skill early).  It also improves the chance to get full numerical data on the
power of magical devices and activatable items and to automatically sense
charges.  Perception biases all sort of sighting and awareness rules in your
favour; for example, it enables you to sometimes "hear" unseen monsters nearby.
Take this skill high enough, and you will start to get precognition messages
(which can be extremely helpful for a truly skilled character).  A relatively
high perception (and wizardry) skill is essential for reliably finding essences.
    Perception grants one talent:  Sense area (55).

Stealth   (cost - 6):
     Decreases the amount of innate noise and also most kinds of directed noise
you make; when deliberately "sneaking", this effect is tripled.  Increases the
power of various camouflaging and concealment magics.  Most importantly, stealth
makes it more likely that monsters will be generated asleep and reduces the rate
at which they enter the dungeon (the "word doesn't get around").
     Stealth grants two talents:  Sneaking (10) and superstealth (60).

Disarming   (cost - 4):
     Improves your ability to safely disarm traps and chests and unlock doors.
When at or above the current dungeon or chest level, this skill guarantees safe
disarming (magic, in contrast, is always slightly chancy).

Dodging   (cost - 6):
     Improves ability to retain spellpoints when wearing heavy armour.  Gives
you a guaranteed armour class even if you are wearing no armour.  Is the most
important factor in your ability to dodge missiles, both magical and physical,
and some kinds of traps.  Also gives you protection against melee attacks
(especially attempts to steal).
     However, in order to dodge missiles, traps, and melee blows effectively,
you also need to keep your Dexterity high, and your carried items (especially
your shield!) light.  Your character screen takes all of this into account.

Spell resistance   (cost - 6):
     Increases your saving throw against magical and mental attacks (blinding,
confusion, paralyzation etc.).  Attention paid to this skill can save your
life...

Weaponsmithing   (cost - 9):
     Once you raise this skill to 15, allows you to forge melee weapons from
components found in the dungeon.  Note:  you also need to be relatively skilled
in using the weapon type you are making.

Bowmaking   (cost - 10):
     Once you raise this skill to 15, allows you to forge missile weapons and
missiles from components found in the dungeon.  Note:  you also need to be
relatively skilled in using the weapon or ammunition you are making.

Armor forging   (cost - 14):
     Once you raise this skill to 15, allows you to forge armor from components
found in the dungeon.  Armor forging is very expensive, because there are almost
no object qualities that cannot be had with enough skill, good enough
components, and a dash of luck.

Alchemy   (cost - 10):
     Allows you to create potions, scrolls, rings and amulets.  You need a skill
of 10 to create potions and scrolls, and a skill of 35 to create rings and
amulets.

Magical infusion   (cost - 13):
     Infusion is among the most powerful of skills, because it allows you to use
magical essences to control the powers that armour, weapons, and missiles get,
pack essences into potions that explode violently when thrown, and make more
potions and scrolls using a given number of essences.  You need an infusion
skill of 10 to infuse forged items.
     Infusion grants one talent:  Recharging with essences (30).

















