
====== Talents ======

     The game will notify you of any new talents you get as you raise skills.

     Typing '[' brings up a list of talents.  If you have at least one talent,
you can browse (get extra information about) it by typing '*', or mark it (get
notification when it is again available for use) by typing '!'.


--- List of Talents ---

Turn skin to stone:
     Increases your armour class substantially.  Requires a wrestling skill of
65 and the Oath of Iron.

Berserk fury:
     Drives you into a berserk fury, which greatly increases your strength,
melee skill, and hitpoints, but hinders archery and throwing, reduces your
armour class, and leaves you exhausted.  Requires a wrestling skill of 80 and
the Oath of Iron.

Resist damage:
     Lets you go into a brief trance-like state in which you take only 2/3rds
damage from all forms of attack.  Requires a karate skill of 90 and the Oath of
Iron.

Learn about monster:
     Gives you partial information about a single monster, especially about
attributes that would determine which weapon you might use against it.  Requires
the Oath of Iron.

Detect magic:
     Reveals most kinds of magical items nearby, which is very helpful for
finding concentrations of neat loot.  This talent does not reveal essences.
Requires a wizardry skill of 40.  Wizards use a spell instead.

Phase warp:
     Semi-controlled teleport.  At levels not much above the minimum, is only
slightly better than a phase door, but at high levels, gives good control of
movement.  Requires a wizardry skill of 50.  Wizards use a spell instead.

Tap magical energy:
     Allows you to regain mana by tapping magical devices (especially staffs and
wands).  This can be a very useful ability indeed, because ways to magically
recover mana are rare.  Requires a wizardry skill of 75.  Wizards use a spell
instead.

Sense evil:
     Detects evil monsters (even invisible ones) nearby.  Requires a holy
alliance skill of 30.  Priests use a prayer instead.

Restore stats:
    Instantly restores all of your vital statistics to maximum.  Requires a holy
alliance skill of 75.  Priests use a prayer instead.

Sense animals:
     Detects natural creatures (even invisible ones) nearby.  Requires a nature
lore skill of 25.  Druids use a technique instead.

Mend self:
     Reduces cuts, stuns, blindness, poison, and disease.  Requires a nature
lore skill of 50.  At very high skill levels, allows you to heal yourself
rapidly.  Druids use a technique instead.

Sense undead:
     Detects all undead monsters nearby.  Requires a blood dominion skill of 25.
Necromancers use a ritual instead).

Restore experience:
     Restores your skills.  This talent is very powerful, but you need a blood
dominion skill of 85 to use it.  Necromancers use a ritual instead.

Sense charges:
     Those skilled with magical devices often automatically sense charges on
wands and staffs.  If this automatic sensing fails, this talent guarantees
success.  Requires a magical device skill of 70.

Nab object:
     Fetches an object in line of sight to you, even if a monster is on top of
it.  The maximum weight of the object goes up with skill.  Requires a burglary
skill of 40.

Poison ammo:
     Allows you to use certain mushrooms and potions to poison ammunition; such
missiles do extra damage to all monsters not resistant to poison.  Note:  this
skill is not an easy money-maker, because all objects you create yourself are
discounted by 80%.  Requires a burglary skill of 55.

Hit and run:
     Casts a spell around you; when you next hit a monster in melee, or steal
from it, you will execute a phase door.  The neat thing is that the monster gets
no chance to retaliate.  Requires a burglary skill of 70.

Predict weather:
     Druids rely on this talent to tell them what the weather is like.  The
accuracy of weather predictions goes up with perception skill, and down as you
descend into the dungeon.  A druid needs to wait some time between forecasts,
but may get automatic reports when the weather changes (again, depending on
perception skill and dungeon depth).

Sense area:
     Magically maps the local area, revealing walls and floors (but not objects
or monsters).  Requires a perception skill of 55.  Eventually gains extended
range.

Sneaking:
     When you use this talent (or type the 'S' (or '#') key), you start to sneak
around.  This slows you down but makes you more stealthy (depends on stealth
skill).  Also, the higher your Burglary skill, the more likely that you will get
especially deadly sneak attacks (much more effective than the ordinary sleeping
monster bonus) on sleeping monsters.  Requires a stealth skill of 10.

Superstealth:
     Greatly increases your stealth temporarily.  Requires a stealth skill of
60.  At a stealth of 90 or greater, cancels aggravation temporarily.

Recharging:
     Allows you to use essences to recharge wands, staffs, and even rods.  This
method is riskier to you than normal recharging, but is much less likely to blow
up the item you are working on.  Of course, you have to find the right kind of
essences first.  Requires a magical infusion skill of 30.

Weapon forging:
     Allows you to create weapons using components.

Armour forging:
     Allows you to create armour using components.

Bowmaking & fletching:
     Allows you to create bows and ammunition using components.

Alchemy:
     Allows you to create potions, scrolls, rings, and amulets using bottles,
parchments, and essences.

Dragon-breathing:
     If you are in dragonform, you can use this talent to consume essences and
breathe them out in powerful breaths.  The amount of damage you do depends on
your total power and on the type of essence you choose (the more likely the
breath is to be resisted, the more damage it does).
     Of course, you have to find a way to turn into a dragon first...


--- Object-forging ---

     When using an object-forging talent, you usually need some kind of input.
You can only create weapons, armour, and missiles in the town.

Components:
     Components of metal come in several different types; the higher level the
component, the more powerful the weapon, armour, or missiles that can be forged
from it.  Certain components add special qualities to the items they create;
mithril is unusually light, adamantium unusually heavy, and both ignore acid and
fire.

Bottles:
     You need empty bottles to create potions.  You start saving empty bottles
as soon as you get your alchemy skill up to 10.  Bottles come in several
varieties; the higher level the bottle, the less likely potions made from it
will shatter when frozen.

Parchments:
     You need blank parchments to create scrolls.  You start saving parchments
as soon as you get your alchemy skill up to 10.  Parchments come in several
varieties; the higher level the parchment, the less likely scrolls made from it
will burn or be destroyed by acid.

Essences:
     Essences are foci of concentrated magic; they slowly gather near objects
and monsters with strong attributes of a particular type.  Every poisonous snake
on a newly created level has some chance of having attracted an essence of
poison, fire-branded weapons might have attracted essences of fire, and potions
of cure critical wounds might have attracted essences of healing.  Objects and
monsters generated while you are exploring the level cannot have attracted
essences, because they haven't stayed in one place long enough.
     Essences cannot be detected with magic; you have to find them the old-
fashioned way, by thoroughly investigating places where you think they might be.
The higher your wizardry and perception skills, the more essences you will find.
Essences are more numerous but harder to spot deep in the dungeon.  Once you
find an essence, you pick it up by moving onto it.  It automatically goes into a
special pouch slot in your equipment; you may 'I'nspect or e'x'amine this pouch
to see what essences you have.


Forging Wargear:
     Weapon, armour, and missile forging all compete for the same kind of input:
components.  The more skilled you are, and the better the component you choose,
the greater the maximum power of the object you create.  You also need some
skill in using the object you forge, or it will be less powerful.
     When forging, you choose an object type that you are aware of.  The actual
power of the forged item greatly depends on this choice.  Melee weapons and body
armour can have a lot of attributes; other kinds of armour and missile weapons
have somewhat less, and ammunition has only a few.  Also, the higher level and
more powerful the base object, the fewer extra attributes it gets.
     Forging may fail, and when it does, things go boom.  You reduce your
failure chance by choosing low-level base object types (daggers versus
executioner's swords) and high-level components.
     You can give your forged items names by inscribing them.

Infusion of forged items:
     If you have essences, you can add specific attributes to forged items.
This can be extremely powerful, but you have to be very careful:  The greater
the percentage of total power you try to specify using essences, the more likely
it is that the forging will fail, and that you will lose everything.  Infusion
skill helps a lot with this.  The essence add screen has a handy indicator of
how dangerous things are getting.  Secondly, you can never guarantee an
attribute, no matter how many essences you devote.  You will usually end up
offering between the minimum and three times that amount, and accepting about a
33-66% chance.
     Again:  forging is very, very chancy.  Magic-using smiths and alchemists
are notorious for rearranging the landscape.  If you fail, just remember that
there are lots more essences and components waiting to be found.

Alchemy - potion-making:
     Potion-creation requires essences and bottles.  You can only make potions
that you are aware of and whose essence cost you can meet.  The higher your
alchemy skill, the higher the maximum level of potions you can make.
     Alchemy can fail, and when it does, the potion you are working on explodes
violently.  You increase your success rate by choosing low-level potions, high-
level bottles, and by raising your alchemy skill.
     You can often make more than one potion using a given number of essences;
the amount depends on the value of the potion and your infusion skill.  Making
more than one potion at a time is especially risky, but increases in infusion
skill help.

Alchemy - making potions of essences:
     Potions of essences ("magical grenades") can do a lot of damage, whether
you throw them, quaff them, or use them in traps.  Damage depends on the number
of essences you pack in, on your infusion (not alchemy) skill, and on the type
of essences you use (the basic elements do the most damage, the esoteric stuff
does the least).  If you pack too many essences in, and fail to use a sturdy
enough bottle, your magical grenade might explode...

     Approximate damage:
     skill * 1.3 (up to 130) for one essence
     skill * 1.9 (up to 190) for two essences
     skill * 2.4 (up to 240) for three essences

Alchemy - scroll-creation:
     Scroll-creation is very similar to potion-creation except that you use
parchments instead of bottles.

Alchemy - The creation of rings and amulets  (requires a skill of 35):
     Making rings and amulets needs both components and essences.  The level of
object you can make depends on alchemy skill and component quality.  Failure
chance depends on the level of the item you are trying to create and on your
skill.


















