
===================== Game Tutorial:  The Novice's Guide ======================


     When you begin the game, you start out in a town with stores happy to sell
you whatever they stock and you can afford.  Visit the stores and stop by your
very own home (the symbol '8'), where you can safely stash all sorts of useful
gear for later use.

     Look at the left side of the screen, where all the most important info
about you is displayed.  Reading from the top, you'll see your name, present
title, unspent experience, and money on hand.  Your race (almost) never changes,
but you can gain more experience points by killing monsters and more gold by
selling the loot they drop.
     Below these are the six vital statistics:  Strength, Intelligence, Wisdom,
Dexterity, Constitution, and Charisma.  Near the bottom, you will see your
armour class, hit points, and (when you learn magic) your spell points.  Armour
class shields you from direct damage.  Hitpoints are your life wrapped up in a
number, so run from anything that drops them too low, too fast.

     Get familiar with some of the commands you have available to you, either by
reading the help, or by experimenting, whichever you prefer.  If you mistype,
the game will offer to bring up a list of commands.
     To exit this tutorial, hit escape.  When ready to continue, type '?' to
open up help, then press '1' twice.



     Okay, time to get playing!  Pick up an inexpensive weapon (store 3), some
flasks of oil (store 1) or a sling and some shots (store 3), some light armor
(stores 1 and 2), and some phase door scrolls and potions of cure light wounds
(Stores 4 or 5).  If one is available, get your hands on a lantern, because the
extra light it provides is very handy.  Once you've earned a little money,
invest in a shovel or a pickaxe.  Now, 'w'ear a torch or your lantern, your
armor, and your weapon.
     See that down staircase '>'?  It's the entrance to the deadly, lucrative
dungeon.  Head down (Once on top of the staircase, type '>').
     Once you do that, you will find yourself in a dungeon of rooms and
corridors.  Since you have already wielded a light source, you can see, even if
you are not in a magically lit room.  Go off and explore the dungeon.  When your
light runs out, re'F'uel it.  When you get hungry, 'E'at some of the food your
character started out with.
     When you meet your first monster, pepper it with sling shots (press 'f' to
fire) until it reaches you, and hit it with your weapon (move into it) until
it's dead.  If your HPs drop too low, quaff a potion of cure light wounds, read
a scroll of phase door, or run away.
     When you get enough money and objects to sell, go back up to the town.
When you get a little experience to spend, type '$' and put it to good use.  If
you have questions, the '?' key is there to help.

Have fun!
















